WELCOME TO THE
JULY
24TH 2024 MEETING OF THE
NO ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS OR
ZIBA WE ARE A NINE MEMBER
VOLUNTEER BOARD ALTHOUGH WE ARE
DOWN BY TWO AND HAVE SEVEN
MEMBERS BUT WE'RE LOOKING FOR
TWO NEW MEMBERS.
>> WE ARE NOMINATED BY THE
MAYOR AND APPROVED BY CITY
COUNCIL.
>> WE HAVE FOUR APPLICATIONS
TONIGHT APPLICANTS SEEKING AN
EXCEPTION OR A VARIANT OR SOME
OTHER RULING UNDER THE CITY'S
ZONING ORDINANCE AND WE WILL
CONSIDER THOSE FOR EACH
OF THOSE WE WILL EACH OF THESE
FOUR APPLICATIONS WE WILL
PROCEED AS FOLLOWS.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM CITY
STAFF MOST TYPICALLY IN THE
PERSON OF THE CITY ZONING
COORDINATOR JOHN BARRETT TO MY
RIGHT AND THEN WE WILL HEAR
FROM THE APPLICANTS.
THE APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION IN ADDITION TO
WRITTEN MATERIALS HAVE ALREADY
SUBMITTED.
WE'RE THERE DONE.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS BOTH
OF THE CITY STAFF AND THE
APPLICANTS BUT THAT IS DONE.
THEN WE'LL TAKE QUESTIONS FROM
MEMBERS THE AUDIENCE HERE YOU
MEMBERS WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES
TO SPEAK AND THEN WE WILL SEE
QUESTIONS FROM ANYBODY THAT IS
LISTENING IN.
THEY WILL ALSO HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO SPEAK AND WE WILL
ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
MATERIALS WE HAVE RECEIVED
SOMETIMES WE RECEIVED LETTERS
AND EMAILS FOR OR AGAINST THE
VARIOUS APPLICATIONS SO PUBLIC
COMMENT IS AVAILABLE AS I
MENTIONED IN PERSON OR REMOTELY
.
>> IF YOU ARE LISTENING
REMOTELY AND YOU WANT TO MAKE A
COMMENT AT THE APPROPRIATE TIME
OF THE MEETING PRESS STERNIN
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE FOR PHONE
ACCESS.
THERE'S A PARTICULAR NUMBER TO
CALL.
I'LL REPEAT THESE THIS NUMBER
TWICE.
IT'S 877 EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE
TO FOUR SEVEN AGAIN EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN.
THE MEETING ID IS NINE THIRTY
SIXTEEN FORTY EIGHT ONE
THOUSAND SEVEN AGAIN NINE
THIRTY EIGHT SIXTEEN FORTY
EIGHT ONE THOUSAND SEVEN AND
YOU'LL BE IDENTIFIED AS YOUR
TURN A CALL BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE OR YOUR
NAME IF YOU PUT THAT ON LOOP
THROUGH THE WEB LINK WE WILL
AFTER HEARING ALL THE INPUT
WILL GO INTO A CLOSED SESSION
AMONG JUST THE MEMBERS WE WILL
DO WE WILL DISCUSS THE
APPLICATION WILL THEN FORM YOUR
MOTION AND WE WILL VOTE ON THE
MOTION IN ORDER FOR A MOTION TO
PASS FOR AN APPLICANT TO BE
SUCCESSFUL NEEDS FIVE YES VOTES
IF SOMEBODY DOESN'T GET THE
FIVE YEARS VOTES AND THEY'RE
UNHAPPY THEY CAN PROCEED TO THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT
ON A TIMELY BASIS.
SO THAT FAIRLY LONG
INTRODUCTION.
LET ME TAKE A ROLL CALL HERE
OF PEOPLE HERE I TODD GRANT,
THE VICE CHAIRMAN I'M HERE I AM
HERE ARE IRREGULAR CHAIRPERSON
CANDICE BREEA COULD NOT BE HERE
TONIGHT.
>> DAVE DEVOTEE DAVE ALREADY
HERE.
JULIE WETHERBEE HERE.
MIKE DANIEL ER DARMA ACHMAD
HERE AND CHRISTINA LUSSAC.
>> OK WE HAVE THE AGENDA IN
FRONT OF US WITH FOUR
APPLICATIONS AND THERE'S SOME
OTHER STUFF IN ADDITION AT THE
END WHICH WILL GET INTO CAN DO
I HERE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA TODD BEFORE WE GO
ANY FURTHER THERE'S GOING TO BE
A REQUEST FOR POSTPONEMENT
TONIGHT.
OK, ZIBA CASE NO UH TWENTY FOUR
DASH ZERO ZERO TWO FIVE ADDRESS
TEN FIFTEEN BROADWAY STREET THE
REQUESTED THEY POST PUBLISHED
OK SO THAT WILL BE THREE ITEMS
OF BUSINESS.
>> COULD I ADD ONE NOTE YOU
SAID THAT WE WOULD GO INTO
CLOSED SESSION.
WE WILL NOT OUR MEETING IS
TOTALLY OPEN.
>> THANK YOU.
UM BUT AFTER PUBLIC COMMENT IS
CLOSED THEN IT'S JUST A
DISCUSSION FROM THE BOARD NO
MORE NO FURTHER COMMENT FROM
THAT'S AN IMPORTANT CORRECTION
BUT IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
WE'RE IT'S AN OPEN MEETING AND
IT WILL BE AN OPEN AND CORRECT.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SO DO I HAVE AN APPROVAL THEN
FOR THE AGENDA AS MODIFIED?
WELL, I GUESS WE NEED TO
ADDRESS THE POSTPONEMENT
OF BROADWAY.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
FIRST WE'LL HAVE A PUBLIC
HEARING IF ANYONE IS HERE FOR
OR SPEAK FOR AGAINST IT.
UH, CURRENT WON'T HAVE A STAFF
PRESENTATION.
WE WON'T HAVE A, UH, APPLICANT
PRESENTATION IF YOU AGREE TO
POSTPONE THE CASE, I WON'T GET
TO THAT CASE.
>> I WILL HAVE TO HAVE THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
OK, I MOVE WE APPROVE THE
AGENDA WITH THAT CHANGE THE
SECOND OK
, ALL IN FAVOR SAY HI
EVERYBODY AGAINST LUC.
WE HAVE THE MODIFIED AGENDA.
UM, OUR FIRST ITEM IS THE
MINUTES FROM LAST MEETING IN
JUNE.
ARE THERE ANY COMMENTS ON THE
MINUTES AND CHANGES CORRECTIONS
THREE NINE IS THERE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES FROM JU?
OK THANK YOU JULIE AND SECONDED
BY DHARMA.
OK
CALLING YOUR FIRST APPLICANT
.
>> UH WELL WE'RE PROCEEDING ON
OUR FIRST APPLICATION 9/11
AVENUE AND BEGINNING WITH THE
CITY STAFF JOHN BARRETT.
OKAY GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN BARRETT ON THE
ZONING COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
THE FIRST PETITION BEFORE US
THIS EVENING AS ZIBA 24 DASH
ZERO ZERO TWO FOUR AND THE
ADDRESS IS NINE ELEVEN MILLER
AVENUE THERESA ANGELINI
OF ANGELINI AND ASSOCIATES
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS REQUESTING RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TWO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
CONSTRUCT A SECOND FLOOR
ADDITION TO THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING RESIDENCE.
THE SECOND FLOOR WILL CONTAIN A
NEW BEDROOM AND BATHROOM.
THE RESIDENCE NONCONFORMING FOR
THE FRONT SET BACK ALONG
HARBORVIEW BOULEVARD AND THE
AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK ALONG
MAPLE RIDGE STREET.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED R ONE D
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE MILLER
AVENUE IN THE HARBORVIEW
NEIGHBORHOOD THE PROPERTY IS
FRONTAGE ALONG THREE STREETS
MILLER AVENUE, HARBORVIEW
AVENUE AND MAPLE RIDGE STREET.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN 1930 AND
IS APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND
FOUR HUNDRED THIRTY SQUARE FEET
IN SIZE.
THE PROPERTY IS FIVE THOUSAND
FOUR HUNDRED EIGHTY EIGHT
SQUARE FEET AND AREA THE
RESIDENCE IS A SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSE AND WILL REMAIN AS SUCH.
THE PROPERTY CURRENTLY
ENCROACHES SEVEN FEET INTO THE
FRONT SET BACK ALONG HARBORVIEW
AVENUE AND TWELVE NINE INCHES
INTO THE TWENTY NINE POINT SIX
THREE AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK
ALONG MAPLE RIDGE STREET.
THE PROPOSED SECOND STORY WILL
NOT ENCROACH FURTHER INTO THE
FRONT SETBACKS OR INCREASE THE
NONCONFORMITY OF THE PROPERTY
OR THE RESIDENCE.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS YOU'LL SEE THE
FIRST SLIDE SHOWS THE ZONING
MAP AND THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED IN THE CENTER
OF YOUR SCREEN AND AS I STATED
JUST SOUTH OF MILLER AVENUE
ALONG MILLER AHMADU AND MAPLE
RIDGE STREETS.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE
LOCATION MAP SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO AND YOU SEE THAT
AT THE CURRENT RESIDENCE DOES
NOT MEET THE AVERAGE FRONT SET
BACK ALONG HARBORVIEW AND MAPLE
RIDGE RIGHT ALONG HERE.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE IS THE
SURVEY THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH
THE APPLICATION BY THE
APPLICANT AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS
THE SITE SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT.
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE DASHED
LINE IS THAT IS THE CURRENT
REQUIRED SET BACK THE LIGHTER
SHADED GRAY IS THE CURRENT
FOOTPRINT OF THE HOUSE AND THE
DARKER SHADE IS WHERE THE
PROPOSED SECOND STORY ADDITIONS
WILL BE.
>> AS I STATED, IT WON'T
ENCROACH ANY FURTHER TOWARDS
EITHER ONE THE FRONT SYPHAX AND
IT'S JUST A SECOND FLOOR SECOND
STORY ADDITION APPROXIMATE 252
SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
>> THIS IS THE FIRST FLOOR PLAN
OF THE HOME.
IT'S THE EXISTING FLOOR PLAN AS
IT CURRENTLY CURRENTLY STANDS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SECOND
FLOOR PLAN AS IS CURRENT IN ITS
CURRENT STATE AND THIS IS THE
FIRST FLOOR PLAN BEING
PROPOSED.
THEY'RE JUST GOING TO DO SOME
INTERIOR REMODELING.
THE FIRST FLOOR WHICH IS A PART
OF THIS IS PART OF THE PROJECT
BUT THAT PART OF THE REQUEST
TONIGHT AND THEN THE SECOND
FLOOR PLAN BEING PROPOSED WITH
TO THE TWO BEDROOMS AND TWO
BATHROOMS, LINEN CLOSET BUT THE
NEW ADDITIONAL ONE BEDROOM, ONE
BATH ON THE SECOND FLOOR.
THESE ARE THE EXISTING
ELEVATIONS THAT WERE SUBMITTED
WITH THE APPLICATION THE
SIDE
IN THE FRONT THE NEXT
ELEVATIONS, THE BACK IN THE
SIDE AND THE WEST AND NORTH
ELEVATIONS AS BEING PROPOSED
AND YOU COULD SEE WHERE THIS IS
WHERE FROM THE FRONT LOOKING AT
IT FROM MILLER AND THIS WHERE
I'M CIRCLING WITH THE WITH THE
CURSOR THE MOUSE IS THE
PROPOSED ADDITION.
THESE ARE THE SOUTH AND THE
EAST PROPOSED ELEVATIONS.
THESE ARE SLIDES THAT WERE
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
BY THE APPLICANT.
YOU SHOULD SEE THE EXISTING
FRONT ELEVATION AND THIS IS THE
PROPOSED FRONT EXISTING SIDE
AND PROPOSED SIDE AND THAT'S
THE ADDITION EXISTING BACK
ANGLE PROPOSED BACK ANGLE THE
HOME EXISTING BACK OF THE WITH
THE GARAGE AND THE PROPOSED
BACK JUST A DIFFERENT ANGLE
OF THE ADDITION ALL THE WAY
AROUND AND THESE ARE THE PHOTOS
THAT I TOOK OUT MY INSPECTION.
>> YOU SEE THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE, THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE
FROM HARBORVIEW STREET CLOSE IN
PROXIMITY OF WHERE THE
ADDITIONS ARE GOING TO BE.
AND THE SECOND STORY LOOKING
DOWN HARBORVIEW AND MAPLE RIDGE
ST. LOOKING AT THE INTERSECTION
OR THE FACES THE HOUSE BACK
VIEW OF THE HOUSE AND YOU SEE
THE EXISTING ADDITION ON THE
SECOND STORY LOOKING DIRECTLY
ACROSS THE STREET AT THE FRONT
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY JUST
THE VIEW OF THE NEIGHBORING
PROPERTIES AND THAT IS THE END
OF MY PRESENTATION AND I WILL
TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU
HAVE THIS TIME.
>> THE QUESTIONS FOR JOHN.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THREE NINE I GETS THESE NOW THE
TURN TO THE APPLICANT.
SO IS MISS ANGELINA I THINK OR
WHOEVER IS HERE ON BEHALF
OF THE APPLICANT.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU.
UM, VERY FROM REPRESENTING A
PROGRAM THAT THAT IS SOMETIME
EITHER NOW OR AT THE END PLEASE
SIGN IT.
I HAVE UNCOVERED UH UM THE
ISSUE IS CERTAINLY THAT THIS
SITE IS UNUSUAL THAT IT HAS THE
THREE SET THAT UM TO BE THAT
BACK AND TWO OF THEM REALLY
RESTRICT WHAT YOU CAN DO WITH
POVERTY AND YOU LOOK AT THE
SITE PLAN B, THERE'S A LITTLE
BIT OF YOU CAN SEE HOW MUCH
OF A HAVE ALREADY BEEN SET BACK
IN ANY POSSIBILITY OF TRYING TO
ADD TO THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
WHICH WOULD MEAN THAT WE'D BE
GOING THROUGH A ROOM.
THEY'RE ALREADY SACRIFICING THE
BEDROOM OR BATHROOM SO SEVERAL
DIFFERENT OPTIONS.
UM, WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE SECOND
FLOOR I HAVE UH RIGHT NOW IN
TERMS OF THE FLOOR PLAN, UM I
NOTICED ON THE CITY CENTER SITE
IT SAYS IT'S A THREE BEDROOM
HOUSE.
UH, REALLY THERE'S ONE BEDROOM
THAT'S THE PRIMARY BEDROOM U
THE BACK SIDE AND THEN THERE
ARE TWO ROOMS THAT YOU HAVE TO
GO THROUGH ONCE YOU GET TO THE
OTHER BECAUSE OF THE FIREPLACE,
THE OH IT'S ESSENTIALLY A TWO
BEDROOM HOUSE AND THEN THE
BATHROOM UM AS PRETTY FABRICE
AS I SAID THE ROOM PITCHES IT'S
IT'S LIKE THE UM THE SIDE WHERE
THE WINDOW IS NOW IN THE
BATHROOM.
OH IT'S PRETTY SMALL AND THIS
IS A GROWING FAMILY OF ONE
CHILD.
UM I NOTICED AS AN ARCHITECT
WORKING ON THESE THINGS LIKE
THIS FOR YEARS NOW PROPERTY
TURNS OVER QUITE A BIT.
>> DON'T HAVE SPACE FOR A
FAMILY TO GROW AND THIS
PROPERTY HAS IT'S TURNED OVER
SEVERAL TIMES IN THE LAST FEW
YEARS.
BUT KATIE AND COREY HAVE LIVED
HERE FOR A FEW YEARS AND THEY
DO KNOW THE HOUSE WELL AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THEY LOVE
BEING ACROSS THE STREET FROM
SCHOOL AND BUILDING ON TOP
OF THIS ALREADY NONCONFORMING
PROPERTY.
JUST YOU WILL REINFORCE THE
STYLE OF THE HOUSE.
IT DOESN'T BLOCK THE LIGHT OR
VIEW TO ANY OTHER PROPERTIES.
SO WE WHAT WE PROPOSE WE HOPE
THAT YOU WOULD AGREE THAT IT
REINFORCES THE HOUSE, THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT DOESN'T
HURT ANY OTHER PROPERTIES.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS I CAN
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS THIS DAY?
>> I HAVE JUST ONE QUESTION THE
IT LOOK LIKE FROM ONE OF THE
PROPOSED VIEWS THAT THERE WAS
GOING TO BE A NEW FENCE ADDED
ON THE PROPERTY AND THIS ONE ON
THE PROPERTY THAT WE WERE NOT
AT JUST THIS PROPERTY IS AN
EXISTING TRANSFER.
YES.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, NO FENCES AND THE OTHER
QUESTIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU.
PLEASE SIGN IS THERE ANYBODY
HERE IN THE AUDIENCE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO COMMENT ON THIS RIGHT
NOW?
IS ANYBODY FROM THE OUTSIDE,
ANYBODY CALLING IN CURRENTLY
THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
OK, AND I DON'T THINK WE
RECEIVED ANY WRITTEN MATERIALS
ON THIS LETTER.
IS THAT CORRECT?
CORRECT.
ONE OH ONE I DO NOT HAVE A COPY
OF AREA I BROUGHT MY UP I DID
NOT GET ONE OF THE
WE OF THE
OWNERS ON ZOOME AS WELL IF
ANYBODY WANTED TO ASK QUESTIONS
OK WHOSE LETTER SUPPORT ONE OR
THE LETTER AGAINST FROM HERE IN
THIS TOWN DON'T KNOW.
THANK YOU LETTERS SUPPORT IS
FROM HOLLY ELLIOTTS.
YEAH THAT IS GOOD.
THEY LIVE UH ACROSS THE BRIDGE
ONE HOUSE FOR THE OTHER GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT THE PUBLIC DISCUSSION PART
IS IS ENDED AND AS DAVE
CORRECTLY POINTED OUT WE ARE
NOT IN A CLOSE MEETING TO OPEN
AND NOW WE'RE HAVING DISCUSSION
AMONG MEMBERS ABOUT THIS, UH,
SEEKING EMOTION THAT DAY.
>> THIS IS A TEXTBOOK CASE
OF SIMPLICITY FOR ME.
IT'S TOTALLY WITHIN THE
EXISTING ENVELOPE CONSISTENT
WITH ARCHITECTURE OF THE HOUSE
AND DESIGN AND THE ARCHITECTURE
THROUGHOUT THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> SO EASILY SUPPORT THIS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
EMOTIONS WE HAVE EMOTION.
>> I'LL MAKE A MOTION OF GREAT
ZIBA TWENTY FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO
TWO FOUR 911 MILLER AVENUE
ALTERATION TO A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF A SECOND STORY
ADDITION TO THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING RESIDENTS.
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS WILL
ALLOW FOR A NEW BEDROOM AND
BATHROOM.
THE RESIDENCE IS NON CONFORMING
FOR THE FRONT SET BACK ALONG
HARBORVIEW BOULEVARD AND THE
AVERAGE SET BACK ALONG MAPLE
RIDGE STREET.
THE ADDITION WILL NOT ENCROACH
ANY FURTHER INTO THE REQUIRED
FRONT SETBACKS.
>> THE ADDITION IS TO BE BUILT.
PART OF THE SUBMITTED PLANS IS
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU JULIE
.
>> ALL RIGHT NOW A ROLL CALL
DARMOUTH.
YES, JULIE YES.
MIKE YES.
>> DAVE HAVARTI.
YES.
>> I ALSO VOTE YES.
CHRISTINA YES.
ALL RIGHT.
IT HAS PASSED.
>> THANK YOU, MA'AM.
AND WE ARE ON TO OUR SECOND
APPLICATION TONIGHT 1000 ETM
BOULEVARD.
>> OH YEAH.
OH GOOD TO THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THEM.
>> OH WHY THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NOT PROBLEM IS SO REGARDING
1015 BROADWAY STREET ZIBA
TWENTY FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO TWO
FIVE THE APPLICANT HAS
REQUESTED THAT IT BE POSTPONED.
>> WE'VE DONE THAT BUT GIVEN
THAT IT WAS NOTICED WE WILL
SEEK ANY COMMENTS THAT OTHER
PEOPLE HAVE ABOUT THIS PROJECT
OTHER THAN THE APPLICANT IS
FIRST IS THERE ANYBODY HERE IN
THE AUDIENCE THAT WISHES TO
SPEAK ON THIS?
>> NO.
>> IS THERE ANYBODY CALLING IN
COURTNEY?
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS, OK?
AND I DON'T KNOW OF ANY WRITTEN
MATERIAL.
>> NO OK.
NOTHING RECEIVED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO THE PUBLIC COMMENT PORTION
OF THIS 1015 BROADWAY STREET IS
CLOSED AND WE WILL TAKE UP THE
APPLICANTS APPLICATION LATER
NEXT MONTH I GUESS NEXT MONTH.
IT'S ALL RIGHT.
CAN I JUST MAKE A QUICK NOTE?
YES,
WE WILL ALSO HAVE A PUBLIC
HEARING NEXT MONTH FOR THIS AS
WELL, RIGHT?
>> YES.
YES.
IT'LL BE LIKE THIS IS THE END.
>> NO, THAT'LL BE JUST A NORMAL
POTENTIAL APPLICATION.
I FELT OK, THANK YOU.
>> GOOD.
THANK YOU DAVE AND NOW WE ARE
ON TO 1000 E STADIUM BOULEVARD
ZIBA NUMBER TWENTY FOUR DASH
ONE 3S ZERO TWO AND AGAIN WITH
CITY STAFF JOHN ZIBA TWENTY
FOUR TWO ZERO ZERO TWO SIX.
THE ADDRESS IS ONE TWENTY
STADIUM BOULEVARD CARLTON
PROPERLY REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY IS SEEKING VARIANCES
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY
FOUR POINT FIVE SUBSECTION B
ONE OTHER MIXED USE AND
NONRESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL
PURPOSE DISTRICTS AND TABLE
FIVE POINT TWENTY FOUR AND
THREE OTHER MIXED USE AND NON
RESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL PURPOSE
DISTRICT PERMANENT SIGNS.
THE EXISTING BUILDING HAS
APPROXIMATELY TWO HUNDRED ONE
SQUARE FEET OF EXISTING SIGNAGE
AND TWO FREESTANDING SIGNS.
ONE OF THE FREESTANDING SIGNS
IS FRONTIN ALONG EAST BOULEVARD
AND SOUTH INDUSTRIAL HIGHWAY.
THE VARIANCE REQUEST WILL ALLOW
AN ADDITIONAL FREESTANDING SIGN
ALONG EAST STADION BOULEVARD
AND SIXTY EIGHT SQUARE FEET
OF SIGNAGE OVER THE MAXIMUM TWO
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT ALLOWANCE.
THE PROPERTY ZONED O OFFICE
DISTRICT THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
IS LOCATED AT THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER OF EAST STADIUM
BOULEVARD AND SOUTH INDUSTRIAL
HIGHWAY AND THE LOWER BERN'S
PARK NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE BUILDING WAS CONSTRUCTED IN
1982.
THE CURRENT USE OF THE
PROPERTIES OFFICE AND MEDICAL
WITH THREE TENANTS AN URGENT
CARE CLINIC AND ESTHETIC CENTER
AND A PLASTIC SURGERY CLINIC.
THE PROPERTY CURRENTLY HAS 10
WALL SIGNS AND TWO FREESTANDING
SIGNS TOTALING THE TWO HUNDRED
ONE SQUARE FEET.
>> THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE ALLOWS THE PROPERTY TO
HAVE A MAXIMUM OF 200 SQUARE
FEET OF SIGNAGE.
THE PROPERTY IS PERMITTED TO
HAVE ONE FREESTANDING
FREESTANDING SIGN STREET
FRONTAGE.
ONE OF THE FREESTANDING SIGNS
IS INSTALLED IN THE NORTHEAST
CORNER OF THE BUILDING AND IS
VISIBLE FROM BOTH EXCUSE ME THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE
BUILDING AND IS VISIBLE FROM
BOTH EAST STADIUM AND SOUTH
INDUSTRIAL HIGHWAY.
THE VARIANCE REQUEST IS TO
ALLOW A THIRD FREESTANDING SIGN
AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE
PROPERTY AT THE DRIVEWAY
ENTRANCE LEADING TO THE VENUE
RESTAURANT THE PROPERTY
ABUTTING IN THE BACK.
>> THE SIGN WILL ADVERTISE FOR
THE VENUE RESTAURANT.
THE PROPOSED FREESTANDING SIGN
WILL HAVE WILL BE SEVEN FEET
TALL AND CONTAIN THIRTY FOUR
SQUARE FEET OF ADVERTISING AREA
ON EACH SIDE FACE TOTALING
SIXTY EIGHT SQUARE FEET.
THE SIGN IS REQUIRED TO BE A
MINIMUM INSTALL THE MINIMUM
OF SEVEN FEET BEYOND THE FLAT
LINE.
IF THE VARIANCE IS APPROVED THE
PROPERTY WILL TOTAL TWO HUNDRED
SIXTY NINE SQUARE FEET
OF SIGNAGE.
YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITOR'S YOU SEE THE FIRST
SLIDE IS THE LOCATION MAP
SHOWING THE SUBJECT PROPERTY AT
THE HIGHLIGHTED AT THE CENTER
OF THE PROPERTY AND THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND THE LOCATION MAPS
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND IF
EVERYONE IS NOT FAMILIAR WITH
IT YOU HAVE THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY WITH A ONE THOUSAND
STADIUM THE MEDICAL UH USE THE
PARKING LOT DIRECTLY BEHIND IT
AND THEN THE VENUE RESTAURANT
DIRECTLY BEHIND IT ABUTTING THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY IN THE
PROPOSED SIGNAGE IS GOING TO BE
IN NORTHEAST CORNER RIGHT WHERE
MY CURSOR IS.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS A ZOOMED
IN AERIAL PHOTO SUBJECT A PHOTO
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION THE NEXT SLIDE IS A
PARTIAL VIEW KIND OF LIKE A
SITE MAP SHOWING THE PROPERTY
AND LIKE I SAID, THEY'VE GOT
THE APPROXIMATE LOCATION OF THE
PROPOSED FREESTANDING DESIGN
START AT THE BOTTOM AND YOU SEE
ITS RELATIONSHIP TO THE VENUE
RESTAURANT IN THE BACKGROUND.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS
EXISTING SIGN CONDITIONS.
YOU HAVE MULTIPLE SIGNS FOR THE
THREE DIFFERENT TENANTS ON EACH
ELEVATION AND THEN YOU SEE THE
PROPOSED FREESTANDING SIGN AREA
.
THIS IS A VISUAL REPRESENTATION
OF CONCEPT OF WHAT THE SIGN
WILL PROPOSE SIGN WILL LOOK
LIKE AT THE VARIANCE IS
APPROVED.
IT'S GOING TO HAVE INTERNALLY
ILLUMINATED LETTERS
APPROXIMATELY EIGHTY SIX INCHES
TALL.
>> FIFTY SEVEN INCHES WIDE.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK AT THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
JUST TO GET A FEEL FOR THE
PROPOSED LOCATION AT THE
ENTRANCE AND THE E STADIUMS IN
THE BACK.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE CURRENT
OFFICE USE FROM A STADIUM AND
THESE ARE JUST THE DIFFERENT
ELEVATIONS AND THE EXISTING
SIGNAGE AND THE CURRENT
CONDITIONS OF THE PROPERTY.
>> THIS IS THE FREESTANDING
SIGN THAT'S AT THE NORTHWEST
CORNER.
IT KIND OF YOU CAN SEE IT
VISIBLE FROM BOTH S INDUSTRIAL
AND EAST STADIUM.
I WILL SAY THAT FREESTANDING
SIGNS THIS IS APPROVED THEY'RE
REQUIRED TO BE TWO HUNDRED FEET
FROM THE EXISTING ONE AND
THERE'S SUPPOSED TO BE TWO
HUNDRED FEET MINIMUM DISTANCE
AND THIS WILL ACHIEVE THAT.
I THINK IT'S AT LEAST TWO 70
FEET FROM EACH FREESTANDING
SIGN
.
>> THIS IS THE ELEVATION FROM
SOUTH INDUSTRIAL AND THEN THIS
IS FROM THE PARKING LOT DRIVE
IN THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
BUILDING AND THIS IS LOOKING,
TURNING FACING AROUND LOOKING
DIRECTLY AT VENUE THE
RESTAURANT AND THAT IS THE END
OF MY PRESENTATION.
>> I CAN TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU HAVE WITH ME AT THIS
TIME ANY QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
>> JOHN, YOU MAY HAVE NOTED
TEXT BE ON THE BACK SIDE AS
WELL.
YES, IT'S GOING TO BE A DOUBLE
FACED SON.
>> OK, SO IT'LL BE INSTALLED
PURP AND DACULA TO EACH STADIUM
AND HAVE SIGNAGE ON BOTH SIDES
.
THANKS FOR LET'S GO RIGHT NOW
THERE IS ONE FREE STANDING
SIGN.
THERE'S TWO AND IT'S WHERE THIS
TWO ON THE
SO THERE'S ONE AT
THE NORTHWEST CORNER RIGHT
HERE.
RIGHT.
THERE'S ANOTHER ONE OVER HERE
AND THOSE ARE BOTH FOR THE
URGENT CARE SLASH OTHER YOU
SIGN THEY'RE BOTH FOR POINT
RIGHT NOW FOR BOYD.
>> OK, AND RIGHT NOW THERE ARE
THEY TOTALLY WITHIN THE TWO
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT?
NO, THEY'RE NOT CONFORMING TO
LINEAR FEET FROM EACH OTHER BUT
THIS PROPOSED ONE WILL BE OVER
HERE.
RIGHT.
SO THAT ONE THAT'S LIKE WHEN I
MEASURE JUST FROM THIS LOCATION
TO THAT LOCATION IS ABOUT TWO
HUNDRED SEVENTY FIVE FEET.
>> SO THE VARIANCE THEY'RE
ASKING FOR IS FOUR SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF SCIENCE SURFACE AREA
ALONG WITH YOU CAN HAVE ONE
FREE STANDING SIGN FOR STREET
FRONTAGE AND SO THAT'S WANTS TO
DO TO THE LOCATION OF IT.
>> IT'S AT THE CORNER YOU CAN
SEE IT FROM HIS STADIUM SORRY
FRONTS ALONG A STADIUM.
BUT WHEN YOU'RE COMING UP
INDUSTRIAL YOU CAN SEE IT FROM
BOTH SIDES.
SO I UNDERSTAND I DID I
COVERED BOTH SIDES.
I COVERED ALL MY BASES.
SO IT'S IT'S THE WAY IT'S
UNIQUELY SITUATED AND UNIQUELY
INSTALLED BY CAPTURING THE TOOK
THE CORNER AND I'M TAKING I
TAKE NO THE SIGN THEY'RE
PROPOSING IS FOR A DIFFERENT
PARCEL A DIFFERENT USE ON A
DIFFERENT PARCEL.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
UM
DOES IT YOU CAN YOU CAN
ADVERTISE FOR OFF PREMISES DOES
THE VENUE SIGNAGE CURRENTLY DID
YOU LOOK AT THE SQUARE FOOTAGE
OF WHAT VENUE HAS AND IS IN
COMPLIANCE?
>> YES.
YES.
AND WITH THIS SIGN AD ADDED
WITH THE VENUE SIGNAGE THE OVER
THE COMPLIANCE FOR VENUE WELL
IT'S SO IT'S NOT GOING TO BE ON
THE VENUE PROPERTY I UNDERSTAND
THAT BUT IT'S ADVERTISING VENUE
BUT IT IT'S SO IT'S PERVE IT'S
TAKEN HER POZZALLO SO I DON'T I
DON'T I'D HAVE TO CALCULATE
WHAT YOU KNOW THE EXISTING WALL
IS THAT I CAN LOOK THAT UP.
>> I'LL DO MY BEST TO LOOK THAT
UP WHILE WE'RE TALKING.
>> JULIE HAS A QUESTION YOU ARE
YOU DONE?
YES, I'M DONE.
YEAH.
SO DO WE HAVE A VIEW OF WHAT
THIS MIGHT LOOK LIKE ON THE
SITE?
I THINK WHAT I'M WORRIED ABOUT
IS THE SIGHTLINES TURNING IN
AND OUT OF THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLISTS
AND IT LOOKS LIKE THIS IS A BIG
SOLID SIGN
SO IT'S GOING TO
HAVE TO BE INSTALLED SEVEN FEET
BEHIND THE LOT LINE WHICH IS
GOING TO BE RIGHT IN HERE
SOMEWHERE AND IT'S
PERPENDICULAR TO STADIUM.
>> YES, IT'S GOING TO HAVE TO
BE SEVEN FEET OFF THIS LOT
LINE.
IT'S SEVEN FEET OFF SO IT'S
GOING TO BE SOMEWHERE IN HERE
TO I'VE GOT A FOLLOW UP
QUESTION IS A LOT LINE WHERE'S
THE LOG LINE BECAUSE IT'S
THAT'S NOT A ROAD THERE.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT THAT IS IS
THAT DRIVE PART OF THE LOT?
YES.
SO THEY COULD ACTUALLY BE SEVEN
FEET OFF WITH A LOT LINE WOULD
ACTUALLY THEY COULD PUT IT
ANYWHERE IN THE I CAN'T PUT IT
IN THE DRIVEWAY.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO PUT IT IN
THE RIGHT.
I UNDERSTAND THAT BUT IT'S LIKE
IT'S GOING TO BE IT'S GOING TO
BE SEVEN FEET LIKE OFF THIS
CURVE YOU BUT DOESN'T HAVE TO
BE
I WAS GOING TO HAVE TO BE
THE SEVEN FEET OFF THE PROPERTY
ALONG THE SIDEWALK AROUND THE
STADIUM.
>> CORRECT.
I SEE I HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS AS WELL.
SO I THINK LAST MONTH OR THE
MONTH BEFORE WE HAD A SITUATION
I THINK IT WAS ON EISENHAUER
WHERE A BANK MOVED IN AND ALL
THE ALLOWABLE SQUARE FOOTAGE
FORESIGHTED HAD BEEN TAKEN UP
BY ALL THE CURRENT TENANTS AND
OBVIOUSLY THE NEW BUSINESS NEED
TO SIGN.
SO OF COURSE THAT WAS AN
OBVIOUS REASON TO GIVE THEM THE
EXTRA SQUARE FOOTAGE.
BUT THIS IS THE DIFFERENT
SITUATION.
SO THE VENUE THE RESTAURANT HAS
I ASSUME ADVERTISING ON SOUTH
INDUSTRIAL CORRECT SIGNAGE
BECAUSE IT IS YOU DRIVE ON
SOUTH INDUSTRIAL YOU CAN SEE
THE RESTAURANT ON THE RIGHT.
YES, YES.
YEAH.
SO THERE ARE ASKING FOR A
VARIANCE TO PUT A SIGN ABOUT
THEM ON SOMEBODY ELSE'S LAND SO
PEOPLE DRIVING ALONG EAST
STADIUM CAN MORE EASILY SEE THE
RESTAURANT, CORRECT.
RIGHT.
OK, SO IT'S NOT A QUESTION
WHERE BECAUSE ALL THE SQUARE
FOOT SIGNAGE ON THE PROPERTY
THEY WANT TO PUT THE SIGN ON
HAS BEEN USED UP BY THE
EXISTING TENANTS.
IT'S NOT A SITUATION WHERE WE
DON'T HAVE ANY SIGN.
>> WE JUST WANT TO HAVE ANOTHER
SIGN AND SOMEBODY ELSE'S
PROPERTY TO BETTER ADVERTISE
OUR RESTAURANT.
>> IS THAT A FAIR STATEMENT?
WELL, I THINK THAT MIGHT BE A
QUESTION YOU SHOULD ASK THE
APPLICANT OK, OK, I'M RIGHT.
>> OK, DAVE I'VE GOT A FOLLOW
UP QUESTION.
UM, SO IF WE WERE TO DO
SOMETHING TO ALLOW SOMETHING
LIKE THIS ADVERTISING ONE TO
USE FROM ONE PARCEL ON ANOTHER
PARCEL WITH THE SLIDE YOU HAVE
UP RIGHT NOW IF YOU GO KITTY
CORNER TO THE NORTHEAST I THINK
THAT'S A DENTAL BUILDING OR
SOME SORT OF MEDICAL OFFICE.
>> IT'S A DENTAL BILL AND I
BELIEVE YEP.
>> COULD THEY COME IN AND ASK
FOR A VARIANCE AND PUT UP
ANOTHER VENUE SIGN OVER THERE?
YEAH, THEY COULD ASK FOR
VARIANCE OR THEY WOULD YOU
DON'T HAVE TO GRANT ME THEY
MIGHT NOT EVEN NEED A VARIANCE
BECAUSE THEY MIGHT BE ABLE TO
KNOW THAT WITHOUT EXCEEDING
THEIR PRESENCE.
>> NO THE SQUARE FOOTAGE
ALLOWANCE IS FOR THE PARCEL
THAT IT'S BEING INSTALLED.
>> I KNOW THEY CAN'T BUT KITTY
CORNER ACROSS YOU'RE SAYING CAN
THEY ASK FOR A VARIANCE ACROSS
DEBRIS?
>> YES.
OR THEY MIGHT NOT EVEN NEED IT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT KIND
OF SIGNAGE THEY MIGHT NOT KNOW
EXACTLY BUT SENSIBLY THEY COULD
GO ALL OVER THE PLACE AND GET
VENUE SIGNS EVERYWHERE YOU
STARTED GIVING US I I'M JUST
DAVE, YOU'RE NOT YOU'RE NOT
OBLIGATED TO GRANT VARIANCES DE
IN THIS COUNTY ANY MORE
QUESTIONS MRS OK I THINK WE'RE
READY TO HEAR FROM THE
APPLICANT.
>> UM ELTON TO POLLY OR GOOD
EVENING.
>> HI.
PLEASE IDENTIFY YOURSELVES AND
SIGN IN.
I'M MARGARET.
GOOD THANK YOU.
SAY YOUR NAME AGAIN MARGARET
DID YOU TURN IS THE MICROPHONE
ON COULD YOU PLEASE TURN IT ON.
ITS EASY TO PUSH IT DOWN TO THE
BUTTON AS REDDENS PUSH IT.
OH THERE WE ARE THERE THAT'S OK
THANK YOU MARGARET.
POSHER OWNER VENU ERIC FRAIZER
OWNER OF IDA ENTERPRISES AND
PARTNERS WITH MARGARET ON HER
SIGNAGE NEEDS AND THE APPLICANT
GOOD THANK YOU.
JUST AS A PREFACE MAY I JUST
SPEAK AS OK SO THE OWNERS
OF THE URGENT CARE BUILDING
I'VE SPOKEN TO THEM AT LENGTH
AND RELATE TO THEM THE REAL
NEED THAT WE HAVE TO HAVE
SIGNAGE ON STADIUM BECAUSE AS
BIG AS THAT BUILDING IS IT'S
THE LUCKIES MARKET.
IT IS VIRTUALLY INVISIBLE FROM
THE STREET.
I MEAN IF YOU APPROACH IT FROM
STADIUM GOING TOWARD THE BIG
HOUSE YOU REALLY DON'T EVEN SEE
IT UNTIL YOU'VE ALREADY PASSED
IT.
IF YOU APPROACH IT FROM
MICHIGAN STADIUM GOING THE
OPPOSITE WAY, THE URGENT CARE
BUILDING ITSELF AND ALL THE
TREES COMPLETELY OBSTRUCT THE
VIEW OF VENUE.
SO THAT'S THE REASON WHY I FEEL
WE NEED TO HAVE A SIGN TO IT
JUST IMPROVES BUSINESS.
WE'RE A NEW VERY YOUNG
RESTAURANT.
WE'RE NOT EVEN TWO YEARS OLD
AND I THINK THAT ADDING A SIGN
THAT'S VISIBLE INDICATING THIS
IS WHERE VENUE IS AND IT'S A
RESTAURANT AND BAR WILL REALLY,
REALLY HELP.
YOU KNOW, IT'S A SMALL BUSINESS
EMPLOY OVER 60 PEOPLE AT THAT
BUSINESS.
I WANT IT TO SUCCEED AND I'M
SURE I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH
OF YOU KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT THE
RESTAURANT BUSINESS BUT IT'S
IT'S NOT AN EASY BUSINESS.
SO I'M TRYING TO BRING
ATTENTION TO IT IN ANY WAY I
POSSIBLY CAN.
SO THAT'S THE BACKGROUND I'LL
ADD I'LL ADD THAT IN ADDITION
TO JUST WANTING THE BUSINESS TO
BE AS SUCCESSFUL AS IT CAN BE,
I DO BELIEVE THERE IS A BIT
OF A SAFETY NEED HERE.
A STADIUM IS VERY IS ANN ARBOR
GOES A PRETTY HIGH TRAFFIC,
PRETTY HIGH SPEED STREET AND
VENUE UNLIKE MAYBE LIKE LUCKIES
IN THE PAST WHERE A GROCERY
STORE YOU'RE TYPICALLY HAVE
REGULARS AND WHILE VENUE DOES
HAVE REGULARS, MARGARET DOES A
REALLY, REALLY GOOD JOB WITH
EVENTS AND THERE ARE I WOULD
SAY A GOOD PORTION OF THEIR
BUSINESS NEWCOMERS EACH TIME
AND IT'S RELATIVELY UNCLEAR
WHERE TO ENTER THEIR LARGE
PARKING LOT IF YOU'RE NOT A
REGULAR ESPECIALLY AT THOSE
SPEEDS AS YOU'RE COMING UP TO
WOODBURY WHAT'S RUN WHICH RUNS
PERPENDICULAR TO THE STADIUM
RIGHT THERE, YOU WILL
INEVITABLY MISS THAT DRIVE AND
THEN YOU'RE AT A REALLY BIG
INTERSECTION WHERE VENUES NOW
BEHIND YOU AND I WOULD SAY IT'S
STRESSFUL FOR FOLKS AND THEY'RE
VERY MUCH LOOKING AROUND HEAD
ON A SWIVEL TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT WHERE TO ENTER.
SO I'D ADD THAT THERE'S A BIT
OF A SAFETY CONCERN IN ADDITION
TO JUST THE BUSINESSES
ADVERTISEMENT.
AND LIKE MARGARET ALSO
MENTIONED, WE DO HAVE A LETTER
FROM THE URGENT CARE OWNER.
SO IT'S NOT AS MUCH JUST A
MATTER OF US WANTING TO ADD
SIGNS ALL OVER AS A PROPERTIES
AS POSSIBLE IS TRULY WHAT I
WOULD SAY.
IT'S THE PRIMARY ENTRANCE THAT
FACES THE PRIMARY FACADE OF THE
BUSINESS AND THAT WE'VE TALKED
WITH THE OWNERSHIP OF THAT
GROUP FROM THE GET GO ABOUT
ADDING THAT SIGN TO THEIR
PARCEL.
I'D ALSO ADD IN LIKE JOHN
MENTIONED, DISTANCE BETWEEN THE
EXISTING FREESTANDING SIGNS AND
WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING.
IT'S ALSO THE THE SPACE BETWEEN
THOSE TWO THE PROPOSED SITE AND
THE EXISTING SIGNS IS A PARKING
LOT.
SO JUST ESTHETICALLY SPEAKING,
NONE OF THE URGENT CARE OR BOYD
SIGNAGE IS REALLY ANYWHERE NEAR
THE SIGN THAT WE'RE PROPOSING.
SO JUST VISUALLY I DON'T THINK
THERE WOULD BE AN
OVERSATURATION PROBLEM MAYBE
MENTION ALSO WE'RE WELL UNDER
THE ALLOWABLE SIGNAGE THAT'S
ALREADY ON VENUE IN RESPONSE TO
MR DEVOTEES QUESTION.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
AND THERE ARE NO OTHER FREE
STANDING SIGNS AT WITH VENUE
EITHER SO THANKS.
AND ANY QUESTIONS DAVE, IN YOUR
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE URGENT
CARE BUILDING PEOPLE THE SO
THEY HAVE TO FREESTANDING SIGNS
OF A VOID THAT ARE
NON-COMPLIANT IN TERMS OF BEING
TWO HUNDRED FEET FROM EACH
OTHER?
DID YOU DISCUSS WITH THEM THE
POSSIBILITY THAT THEY WOULD
REMOVE ONE OF THOSE AS PART
OF THE PUTTING YOUR SIGN AND
THEN THAT WOULD BRING THEM MORE
INTO COMPLIANCE AT THE SAME
TIME?
WHERE DID WAS THAT PART OF ANY
OF THE DISCUSSIONS YOU HAD WITH
THEM?
WE HAVE IT OK, THANK YOU.
WELL, I HAVE A QUESTION FOR
EITHER OF THIS POST OR MR
FRASER.
SO I TAKE IT FROM YOUR
PRESENTATION THAT MORE OF YOUR
CUSTOMERS HAVE PULLED IN FROM
ESTATE ERM AND SELF INDUSTRIAL
IS THAT CORRECT?
ABSOLUTELY.
OK, ABSOLUTELY CORRECT.
YEAH.
>> WHICH THERE ALSO IS NOT A
FREESTANDING SIGN ON THAT
ENTRANCE EITHER BUT SINCE THE
BUILDING IS RIGHT UP TO THAT
STREET IT'S LESS OF A PROBLEM
THERE AND OBVIOUSLY IT'S A
LITTLE BIT SLOWER TRAFFIC ON
THAT AND IT'S NOT AS HIGH A
TRAFFIC I WOULD SAY IT'S LESS
OF A DANGER UNLESS THE INDUSTRY
IS FAR HEAVIER IN TERMS OF IT
IS EASIER TO SEE YOUR BUILDING
ON SOUTH INDUSTRIAL.
IT IS MUCH EASIER AND ANY
ANYBODY ELSE WHO WISHES OK, UM
ANYBODY IN THE AUDIENCE WANT TO
SPEAK ON THIS?
ARE THERE ANY CALLERS CURRENTLY
THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
>> THERE WAS A COMMENT ABOUT A
LETTER FROM THE MEDICAL NO.
SO THAT'S JUST THAT WAS A
LETTER OF AUTHORIZATION OT THEM
TO MOVE FORWARD WITH THEIR SO I
DON'T KNOW IF THERE WAS A
CONFUSION OR WHAT BUT THEY'RE
NOT APPLYING FOR IN ORDER TO
APPLY FOR A VARIANCE ON SOMEONE
ELSE'S PROPERTY YOU HAVE TO GET
A LETTER AUTHORIZATION FROM THE
PROPERTY OWNER WHICH I RECEIVED
ACTUALLY HELD THE APPLICATION
UP UNTIL I RECEIVED THAT LETTER
SO YOU HAVE TO YOU CAN'T JUST
YOU CAN'T JUST ARBITRARILY
APPLY FOR VARIANCES ON OTHER
PEOPLE'S PROPERTY APPROVALS.
SO I HOPE THAT WASN'T PART
OF THE CONFUSION FROM EARLIER.
BUT YES, I WOULD NEVER ALLOW
SOMEBODY APPLY FOR A VARIANCE
IN SOMEONE ELSE'S PRICE.
I DIDN'T
WITHOUT MUCH POWER.
WE CAN JUST SAY YOU'RE GETTING
A SIGNED NO BUT YOU WANT IT OR
NOT.
>> THAT'S NOT UNFORTUNATELY
THAT'S NOT THE CASE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE'RE IN DISCUSSION AMONG
OURSELVES.
>> WELL, LET ME JUST SAY THIS
IS A LITTLE DIFFICULT FOR ME
BECAUSE IT'S NOT THE CASE WHERE
SOMEBODY DOESN'T HAVE SIGNAGE.
ON THE OTHER HAND, I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT FOR RESTAURANTS, NEW
RESTAURANTS AND IN A VERY BUSY
CITY AND WHERE THEY'RE
DIFFICULT TO SEE THEY HAVE
SIGNAGE SO PEOPLE KNOW WHERE TO
WHERE THE RESTAURANT IS.
SO I'M A LITTLE BIT ON THE
FENCE ON THIS.
I UNDERSTAND THE NEED.
IT IS SOMEWHAT OF AN UNUSUAL
SITUATION AND I GUESS I'D LIKE
SOME HELP FROM MY FELLOW ZIBA
MEMBERS ONE WAY OR THE OTHER TO
PUSH ME OFF THE PROVERBIAL
FENCE DE I MY QUESTIONS CLEARLY
RAISED SOME OF MY OBJECTIONS
TOWARDS US.
I COULD LEAN TOWARDS IT BUT WE
HAVE A LOT OF COMMERCIAL DYSTER
COMMERCIAL BUSINESSES THAT ARE
SLIGHTLY OFF OF PRIMARY IN
ROADS OR STREETS AND I JUST I
FIND IT HARD IF THERE'S SIGNAGE
ON THE EXISTING STRUCTURE I
FIND IT HARD TO GRANT A
VARIANCE TO GO ABOVE WHAT'S
ALLOWED ON ON ANOTHER SITE IN
ORDER TO INCREASE THE
VISIBILITY FOR BUT OFF SITE
PRESENTATION OF A BUSINESS
THAT'S NOT ON THAT SITE.
AND I THINK THAT THERE ARE
SITUATIONS THROUGHOUT A
COMMUNITY THAT THIS SORT OF IF
WE START GOING DOWN THIS PATH
WITH THIS SORT OF VARIANCE THAT
WILL WE COULD SEE VARIANCES ALL
ALONG STADIUM BOULEVARD
BUSINESSES THAT ARE ONE BLOCK
OR HALF A BLOCK OFF OF STADIUM
BOULEVARD IN THE WEST STADIUM
AS YOU'RE GETTING TOWARDS THE
JACKSON ROAD I DRIVE BY THIS
ALL THE TIME BOTH GOING WEST
AND EAST EASTBOUND ON STADIUM.
I ALWAYS SEE THE VENUE AND BUT
YOU'RE RIGHT WESTBOUND ON
STADIUM HERE GOT A PROBLEMATIC
LOCATION FOR SIGNS ON THAT AND
YOU'RE RIGHT ABOUT THAT.
BUT IT DOESN'T THAT AFFECT
ALONE DOES NOT TO ME SAY THAT
WE NEED TO HAVE SIGNAGE ON AND
OFF SITE PASSELL FOR YOUR
LOCATION AND I THINK TO GO DOWN
THAT PATH IN YOUR CASE WOULD
OPEN THE DOOR FOR OTHER
BUSINESSES THROUGHOUT THE TOWN
TO COME AND ASK US FOR RARE AND
SIMILAR SIMILARLY SITUATED
BUSINESSES TO ASK FOR
VARIANCES.
IT'S I KNOW IT'S A CHALLENGE TO
FOR ANY RESTAURANT I GREW UP IN
THE RESTAURANT BUSINESS.
I WAS BUSING TABLES IN JUNIOR
HIGH SCHOOL SO I UNDERSTAND
THAT THE RESTAURANT BUSINESS IS
TOUGH AND EVERY OPPORTUNITY YOU
HAVE TO GET SOME OPPORTUNITY TO
MARKET IT IS BENEFICIAL.
I JUST I CAN'T SEE VOTING FOR
THIS.
I'M SORRY TO SAY ANY OTHER KIND
OF KIRSTINE YES.
SO I'M IN SUPPORT OF THIS
APPLICATION.
I THINK GIVEN THE FACT THAT
IT'S A TRICKY INTERSECTION,
TRICKY SITE AND THE SETBACK IS
THIS VERY UNIQUE AND THEY'RE
JUST TRYING TO TO IT'S A BETTER
OPTION REALLY FOR THEIR SITE I
BELIEVE AND I LOOSLEY EQUATING
IT TO ARTERY LAND WHERE THERE'S
THE MASSIVE SIGN IN FRONT VERY
CLOSE TO WASHTENAW ISN'T THAT
RIGHT.
AND THEN WE'VE RECENTLY
APPROVED NEW SIGNAGE FOR THE
RETAIL THAT'S OUR WAY BACK.
I MEAN PUSHED WAY BACK FROM
WASHTENAW.
SO THIS IS A SMALLER VERSION
OF THAT BUT I THINK IT COULD BE
EQUATED TO THAT IF MY MEMORY
SERVES ME CORRECTLY THAT
THERE'S A LARGE STANDALONE SIGN
ON WASHTENAW FOR ALL THE URBAN
LAND BUSINESSES.
>> SO I THINK THE SIZE IS
APPROPRIATE THERE SEEMS TO BE A
LITTLE CONGESTION AT THAT
CORNER IN TERMS OF MAYBE AN
EXISTING LIGHT POLE THAT'S
PERHAPS CONNECTED TO THE
MEDICAL URGENT CARE HONORS LOT
SO THAT YEAH.
SO WE'RE JUST LOOKING AT IT ON
A GOOGLE WE WILL VIEW BUT IT
SEEMS LIKE THAT JUST NEEDS TO
BE COORDINATED BETTER SO
THERE'S NOT A CLUSTER RIGHT
THERE AND THE AND THE POST GETS
IN THE WAY OF YOUR SIGNAGE UM
BUT AT LEAST THE SIDEWALK IS
FAR ENOUGH.
OUTBOARDS SHOULD NOT CAUSE ANY
ISSUES WITH PEDESTRIANS COMING
FROM A FOOTBALL GAME OR WHATNOT
BECAUSE THERE COULD BE A LOT
OF CONGESTION RIGHT THERE TO
ANTICIPATE SO BUT IF THAT CAN
GET WORKED OUT AT THAT CORNER
IN TERMS OF THE PLACEMENT
OF THE SIGNAGE WITH THE
EXISTING SITE LIGHTING, THAT
WOULD BE GREAT AND I'M IN
SUPPORT OF IT.
THANK YOU, MIKE.
>> SO I APPRECIATE THIS POINTS
HERE.
THE SLIPPERY ARGUMENT A FAIR
POINT TO BRING UP.
I THINK FOR ME I I LIVE NOT FAR
OFF THE STADIUM.
I DRIVE THAT QUITE A BIT MYSELF
ALSO FURTHER UPSTATE IS GEARED
TOWARDS LIBERTY AND JACKSON
THERE'S QUITE A FEW AS THEY
ACCURATELY FLAGS LOTS
OF BUSINESSES THAT ARE SET OFF
THE STREET.
THEY'RE HARD TO SEE.
ANOTHER GOOD EXAMPLE TO GIVE
HIS WOLVERINE STATE BREWING
OVER THERE VERY HARD TO SEE
FROM STADIUM BOULEVARD AND I
KNOW A LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE A
HARD TIME FINDING IT THE FIRST
TIME IN A BUSINESS LIKE THAT
IT'S YOU KNOW, THERE'S LOTS
OF OTHER OPTIONS TO GO HAVE
FOOD OR BEVERAGE IN THIS TOWN
AND YOU CAN IMAGINE IF SOMEONE
ISN'T ABLE TO FIND SOMETHING
THEY'RE GOING TO QUICKLY GO ON
TO THE NEXT THING.
I THINK THIS IS UNIQUE UNIQUELY
SITUATED PROPERTY AND IF OTHER
BUSINESSES WERE TO COME WITH A
SIMILAR CHALLENGE, I WOULD BE
OPEN TO THEIR REQUESTS.
TO ME IT WOULD DEPEND ON THE
SIZE OF THE SIGN, YOU KNOW
WHERE IT WAS SITUATED.
IT WOULDN'T BE AN AUTOMATIC
YES.
IT WOULD DEPEND ON A LOT
OF FACTORS.
I THINK THESE UNIQUE FACTORS
FOR THIS UNIQUE PARCEL I'M
GOING SUPPORTED ANYONE ELSE
WISH TO MAKE A COMMENT?
ALL RIGHT, I YOU READY FOR IT?
NOT NOT TO THIS PARTICULAR
ISSUE BUT I WANT TO CORRECT THE
RECORD ON THE AVALANCHE THING
WE HAD TO SIGN VARIANCES WHEN
WE APPROVED ONE.
WE DECLINED AND THEY WERE BOTH
ONE OF THE APPROVAL WAS BASED
ON SOME OF THE STRUCTURAL
ISSUES OF THE BUILDING THAT
PREEXISTED THE SIGNAGE, THE
PREEXIST AND THE BUILDING THAT
KIND OF CAUSED IT.
SO THAT BUT THAT WAS TOTALLY A
DIFFERENT SITUATION.
>> BUT THAT'S NOT TO THIS
ARGUMENT.
OK, I THINK WE'RE READY FOR THE
MOTION.
>> SURE.
I'LL MAKE MOTION.
GREAT.
ZEBA TWENTY FOUR DASH ONE ZERO
TWO SIX ONE TWENTY STADIUM
BOULEVARD IN IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
SIXTY EIGHT FOOT SQUARE FOOT
VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT TWENTY FOUR POINT FIVE
SUBSECTION B SUBSECTION ONE
OTHER MIXED USE AND
NONRESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL
PURPOSES STRIX AND TABLE FIVE
POINT TWENTY FOUR DASH THREE
OTHER MIXED USE AND
NONRESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL
PURPOSE DISTRICT PERMANENT
SIGNS.
THE EXISTING PROPERTY HAS TWO
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET OF SIGNAGE
AND A FREESTANDING SIGN FACING
E STADIUM BOULEVARD.
THE VARIANCE ALLOWS A TWO SIDED
FREE STANDING SIGN TO BE
INSTALLED ALONG EACH STAY
STADIUM BOULEVARD ADVERTISING
THE BUDDING RESTAURANT USE AND
SUPPORT SUPPORT.
OK ALL RIGHT.
READY FOR THE ROLL CALL JULIE?
YES, MIKE YES.
DAVE DAVE ALREADY KNOW
CHRISTINA YES.
DARMOUTH YES.
AND I ALSO VOTE YES FIVE VOTES.
>> THE APPLICATION IS APPROVED.
THANK YOU MR
.
AND OUR NEXT ITEM OF BUSINESS
IS TWO EIGHT FOUR FIVE THE
SOUTH STATE STREET ZIBA
APPLICATION NUMBER TWENTY FOUR
DASH ZERO ZERO TWO THREE AND
CITY STAFF TOM COVERT OF
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING IS
SEEKING FORBEARING ANSWERS FROM
TABLE FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH
EIGHT TRANSIT CORRIDOR
ADDITIONAL STANDARDS THE
PROPERTY IS BEING REDEVELOPED
FOR A NEW MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT
AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER
OF STATE STREET AND EISENHAUER
PARKWAY.
THE PROPERTY IS OWNED TAXI ONE
TRANSIT CORRIDOR DISTRICT FOUR
DIFFERENT REQUIREMENT OF THE
TAXI ONE DISTRICT ARE A
VARIANCE FROM THE BUILDING
DIMENSIONS OF STANDARD.
THE BUILDING WITH PARALLEL TO
THE STREET MAY NOT EXCEED 250
FEET AND THE BUILDING MAXIMUM
DIAGONAL DIMENSION MAY NOT
EXCEED 360 FEET IS BEING
REQUESTED FOR BUILDING A ONE A
VARIANCE OF THE BUILDING
FRONTAGE STANDARD.
THE MINIMUM BUILDING FRONTAGE
SHALL BE SEVENTY FIVE SEVENTY
PERCENT OF THE LOT WITH APPLIED
TO EACH BLOCK AT THE SITE IS
DIVIDED INTO SMALLER BLOCKS AS
REQUIRED AS REQUESTED FOR
BUILDING A ONE A VARIANCE FROM
THE BUILDING.
THE STANDARD IS REQUESTED FOR
SEE TWO AND ANY VARIANCE FROM
THE BUILDING FRONT STANDARD IS
REQUESTED FOR THE BUILDING THE
ONE THE TAXI ONE TRANSIT ORDER
OF DISTRICT WAS ADOPTED IN THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE IN 2022.
IT IS INTENDED ALONG THE
EXISTING CORRIDOR TRANSIT
CORRIDORS TO FACILITATE,
ENCOURAGE AND SUPPORT
REDEVELOPMENT AND INFILL
DEVELOPMENT TO REALIZE MIXED
USE DEVELOPMENTS AND ACHIEVE
DENSITIES THAT SUPPORT AND
SUSTAIN TRANSIT SERVICE AS WELL
AS ENCOURAGE HOUSING AND MORE
SUSTAINABLE FORMS
OF DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT IN
THE T7 ONE DISTRICT IS SUBJECT
TO THE NORMAL DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS PROVIDED IN THE UDC
AS WELL AS ADDITIONAL STANDARDS
PROVIDED IN TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DENSITY OF SECTION
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN SEVEN.
THESE ADDITIONAL STANDARDS
ADDRESS BUILDING MARSING AND
DESIGN FEATURES TO ENSURE NEW
BUILDINGS IN THE T7 DISTRICT
ACHIEVE THE DISTRICTS INTENT
FOR HIGHER DENSITY AND MORE
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY DESIGNS.
NEW BUILDINGS MUST HAVE SMALLER
FOOTPRINTS BUT BE TALLER AND
LOCATED CLOSER TO PUBLIC
SIDEWALKS AND BETTER ACCESS TO
NON MOTORIZED TRANSPORTATION
THAN PERMITTED IN OTHER ZONING
DISTRICTS.
TO DATE THERE ARE SEVERAL
PROJECTS IN THE CONCEPTUAL
PHASE AND ONE SITE PLAN THE
SUBJECT PROJECT HAS BEEN
SUBMITTED FOR FOR REVIEW AND
APPROVAL THE DC ONE DISTRICT A
PETITION TO AMEND THREE
COMPONENTS OF TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASHI AS WELL AS THE
AS THE USE SPECIFIC STANDARD
FOR PARKING STRUCTURES SECTION
FIVE POINT SIXTEEN POINT THREE
L IN SECTION FIVE POINT FIVE
POINT THREE SEVEN POINT TO
SPECIFIC TERMS ARE ALSO BEING
CONSIDERED BY THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THE THREE COMPONENTS OF TABLE
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN THOUSAND
EIGHT REQUESTED TO BE A REMET
TO BE AMENDED INCLUDE CURB CUT
LIMITS, BUILDING FRONT AND
BUILDING DIMENSIONS THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY LOCATED AT THE
NORTHEAST CORNER OF SOUTH STATE
STREET AND EAST EISENHAUER
PARKWAY IS A PROPOSED SITE PLAN
PROJECT TO CONSTRUCT FIFTEEN
NEW BUILDINGS IN A DOWNTOWN
STYLE DEVELOPMENT AROUND TWO
EXISTING BUILDINGS AT SEVEN,
SEVEN, SEVEN AND SEVEN EIGHT
NINE E EISENHAUER NEW BUILDINGS
INCLUDED ONE HUNDRED FIFTY ROOM
HOTEL BUILDING EIGHT APARTMENT
BUILDINGS WITH A TOTAL OF TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY NINE
AFFORDABLE AND EIGHT HUNDRED
AND THIRTY NINE MARKET RATE
UNITS, THREE RESTAURANT
BUILDINGS AND THREE PARKING
STRUCTURES WITH A TOTAL OF 2400
SEVENTY SIX VEHICLE PARKING
SPACES DEVELOPMENT INCLUDES
93000 500 SQUARE FEET OF GROUND
FOR COMMERCIAL SPACE SITE
INCLUDES SIX PARCELS SEVEN
SEVEN SEVEN AND SEVEN EIGHT
NINE E EISENHAUER TWENTY EIGHT
03 TWENTY EIGHT 45 AND TWENTY
NINE NINETY ONE S STATE STREET
AND TWENTY EIGHT HUNDRED
BOARDWALK CONSTRUCTION IS BEING
PLANNED AND SIX PHASES ONE
COMPLETE.
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD WILL INCLUDE
A VIBRANT MIX OF USE, MIX
OF SERVICES, HOUSING OFFICES,
RETAIL RESTAURANTS,
ENTERTAINMENT, HOSPITALITY AND
OTHER AMENITIES THAT SERVE ALL
AGE GROUPS INCOME LEVELS,
HOUSEHOLD TYPES, ABILITY LEVELS
AND CULTURES.
THE OPEN SPACES CREATED WITHIN
WILL BECOME THE HEART OF THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD PROGRAM SEASONALLY
WITH EVENTS LIKE FARMERS
MARKETS, TAILGATES AND MUSIC
SERIES TO CELEBRATE THE
COMMUNITY AND WILL BE OPEN TO
ALL EXISTING STREETSCAPES WILL
BE ENHANCED WITH NEW
LANDSCAPING AND A NEW INTERNAL
STREET NETWORK WILL BE
DEVELOPED WITH SIDEWALKS,
LANDSCAPING AND ON STREET
PARKING FOR SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN
AND SEVEN EIGHT NINE BUILDINGS
WILL REMAIN TO BE INCORPORATED
INTO THE PROJECT DESCRIPTION
OF THE FOLLOWING FOR BEING
REQUESTED.
VARIANCES ARE AS FOLLOWS
VARIANCE NO ONE IS BEING
REQUESTED FOR BUILDING A1 TO
ALLOW A PROPOSED BUILDING TO
EXCEED THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE
LENGTH OF 250 BY TWENTY SIX
FEET.
THE SECOND VARIANCE ALSO
ASSOCIATED WITH BUILDING ONE
PER A1 WOULD ALLOW THE BUILDING
TO HAVE A FRONTAGE OF 52
PERCENT OF THE BLOCK WHICH DOES
NOT MEET THE REQUIRED SEVENTY
PERCENT.
THE PROPOSED BUILDING IS
APPROXIMATE 21 FEET LESS THAN
THE REQUIRED LENGTH TO MEET THE
SEVENTY PERCENT BLOCK LENGTH
THE REQUIREMENT ALONG EAST
EISENHOWER VARIANCE THREE IF
GRANTED WOULD ALLOW BUILDING C
TO TO EXCEED THE MAXIMUM
BUILDING LENGTH OF 250 FEET BY
44 FEET.
THE PROPOSED BUILDING IS TO BE
CONSTRUCTED IN THE LENGTH
OF TWO HUNDRED AND NINETY FOUR
FEET ALONG BOARDWALK DRIVE AND
LASTLY VARIANCE NUMBER FOR
BEING REQUESTED WOULD PROVIDE
RELIEF TO BUILDING D ONE TO
HAVE A BUILDING FRONTAGE
OF FORTY NINE PERCENT OR TWENTY
ONE PERCENT LESS THAN THE
REQUIRED SEVENTY PERCENT.
THE OVERALL BUILDING LENGTH
PROPOSED IS ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTEEN FEET IN LENGTH OR
FIFTY FEET LESS THAN WHAT WOULD
BE REQUIRED TO MEET THE SEVENTY
PERCENT DIMENSION ALONG
BOARDWALK BOARDWALK DRIVE IF
YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITORS YOU'LL SEE THE
FIRST SLIDE SHOWS THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED IN THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN AND IT'S
AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER
OF EISENHOWER PARKWAY AND SOUTH
STATE STREET.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED
IN AERIAL PHOTO OF THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS OF THE PROPERTY.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS A SITE MAP OF THE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT.
>> AS YOU CAN SEE BUILDING A
ONE WHICH IS PART OF THE FIRST
AND SECOND VARIANCE REQUESTS
BUILDING SITE C TWO I BELIEVE
AND BUILDING THE ONE C TWO
EXPERIENCE THREE BUILDING D WAS
VARIANTS FOR THIS WAS SUBMITTED
WITH THE APPLICATION THAT
DESCRIBES THE VARIOUS REQUESTS
AS I JUST SAID BUILDING A ONE
SHOWING THAT THE BUILDING
LENGTH ALONG SOUTH ST. THE
BUILDING WIDTH REQUIREMENT A
LOT EISENHAUER AND THE C TWO
VARIANTS AND A D ONE VARIANCE
BUILDING DENHA ONE.
THESE ARE PHOTOS THAT I TOOK
OF THE EXISTING CONDITIONS ON
THE SITE.
>> I THINK EVERYBODY IS
FAMILIAR WITH THE 777 BUILDING
.
THIS IS LOOKING DOWN
AND THIS
IS A VIEW OF THE GAS CURRENT
GAS STATION AT THE CORNER
OF THE EISENHOWER AND STATE
STREET AND YOU SEE THE 777
ROLLING IN THE BACKGROUND THAT
IS THE END OF MY PRESENTATION
AND I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME.
>> ANY QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
>> I WILL ALSO SAY THAT ALEXIS
DELIO IS AVAILABLE.
SHE'S THE PLANNER THAT IS
ASSOCIATED WITH THIS FLIGHT
PLAN AND SHE CAN ALSO TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS.
I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS.
OK, UM, LIKE I ANSWERED
ACTUALLY ASK THEM AS A SINGLE
QUESTION I'D LIKE SOME
BACKGROUND OR WHY ORIGINALLY
THE 70 PERCENT FRONTAGE RULE
AND ALSO WHY THE NO MORE THAN
250 FEET IN LENGTH FOR A
BUILDING AND BOTH OF THESE ARE
NOW BEING UP FOR
RECONSIDERATION.
BUT WHAT WOULD HELP ME YOU
KNOWING WHY THESE PARTICULAR
RULES WERE ADOPTED AND WHAT THE
THINKING MIGHT BE AS TO WHAT
THE CITY COUNCIL MIGHT DO IN
THE FUTURE AND WHY IS THIS
HAPPENING NOW?
OK, GOOD QUESTION.
SO THAT'S WHY I WILL DEFER TO
ALEXIS WHO IS MOST FAMILIAR
22ND DISTRICT ANTIBUSING.
WE CAN'T HEAR.
ALL RIGHT, ALEXIS, WE ARE
HAVING AUDIO PROBLEMS.
WE CAN'T HEAR YOU
.
I'M NOT SURE WHY WE CAN'T HEAR
MS.
>> OH, UH, FULL OF THEM RIGHT
NOW.
NO
, YOU
ALEXIS CAN YOU CAN YOU
TRY TALKING NOW
OVER
MAYBE WE
CAN
I CAN HEAR THROUGH MY PETER
I TO BUT I CAN TELL YOU THAT GO
THERE.
>> YEAH.
>> UH DID YOU HEAR THAT.
DID YOU HEAR THE ECHO PARK.
YEAH I HEARD HIS VOICE WELL
MAYBE SHE WENT NOW TO I WOULD
LIKES
OF WHAT WAS THAT AND THEN
BACKGROUND AND OTHER
REQUIREMENT.
>> YEAH YES.
>> ALEXIS I'M JUST SEEKING A
BACKGROUND ON THE REASONING FOR
THE SEVENTY PERCENT FRONTAGE
RULE AND THE NO BUILDING CAN BE
LONGER THAN 250 FEET.
I WANT TO KNOW WHY THEY WERE
ADOPTED AND I UNDERSTAND IT'S
UP FOR REVISION AND PERHAPS
REMOVING THESE REQUIREMENTS BUT
LIKE SOME UNDERSTANDING ABOUT
HOW IMPORTANT THEY ARE AND HOW
THEY HOW THEY TIE INTO THIS
TYPE OF DEVELOPMENT, THAT'S
REALLY WHAT I'M AFTER.
WELL, YEAH, YOU YOU PROBABLY
SHOULD HOLD OFF BECAUSE YOU'RE
NOT COMING IN PUBLICLY YET.
OK,
WE'RE JUST WE'RE MAKING
WE'RE MAKING DO WITH WHAT WE
HAVE.
>> OK, I CAN HEAR YOU AND I
THINK THE OTHER MEMBERS WE CAN
ALL HEAR YOU SO GO AHEAD.
>> THANK YOU.
I'LL TAKE THOSE QUESTIONS IN
ORDER FIRST BUILDING PROJECT
ONE DISTRICT TRIED TO TAKE THE
BEST ELEMENTS OF SOME OF OUR
EXISTING DISTRICTS AND SO WE
HAVE A MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM
BUILDING SITE MINIMUM AND
MAXIMUM SETBACKS, VARIABLE THAT
WAS TAKEN OFFICE DISTRICT TWO
STORY MINIMUM THAT WAS DOWNTOWN
THE BUILDING PROJECT
REQUIREMENT TWO AND BUT IT WAS
TO REPLICATE DOWNTOWN IN THE
QUEEN STREET MALL WHICH IS SORT
OF SOLID BUILDING ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE PHONE.
BILL PARCELLS OUTSIDE
OF DOWNTOWN ARE REALLY VARIABLE
IN SIZE AND ALL OF THEM ARE
VERY WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
DEVELOPMENT WENT UP ON A ROLL
AND TRIED TO REALLY START TO
START CREATING.
SO THAT'S WHERE THE BUILDING
COMES INTO PLAY.
THE SECOND ELEMENT WAS THE
BUILDING DIMENSION.
THOSE ARE BIT MODELED AFTER
DOWNTOWN DOWNTOWN DOES NOT HAVE
THAT BUILDING I MENTIONED BUT
DOES HAVE A MAXIMUM DIAGONAL
AND THAT IS TO ENCOURAGE
OF BUILDINGS TO BE SLIMER LESS
THAN THE DISTRICT 70 PERCENT
BUILDING FRONTAGE.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION JUST
CONSIDERED AN AMENDMENT TO DO
AWAY WITH THAT TO REMOVE THAT
STANDARD THEY STARTED TALKING
ABOUT HOW IN 70 PERCENT THE
RIGHT NUMBER TOO HIGH, TOO LOW
AND THEY CAME TO THE STAFF'S
RECOMMENDATION.
THEY CAME TO THE CONCLUSION
THAT THE EXISTING STANDARDS FOR
BUILDING DIMENSION FOR MINIMUM
AND MAXIMUM FRONT SET BACK AND
SO FORTH ARE MORE IMPORTANT
THAN ARBITRARILY FILLING
SEVENTY PERCENT OF WHAT
FRONTAGE IT'S MORE OF THE
QUALITY THAN THE QUANTITY AND
WE LOOKED AT A LOT OF EXAMPLES
OF OTHER DEVELOPMENTS THAT HAVE
HIGHER AND LOWER PERCENTAGES
ALL SEEMED FINE.
SO THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
GOING TO RECOMMEND THAT THE
BUILDING FRONTAGE 70 PERCENT BE
REMOVED AS A REQUIREMENT.
THE BUILDING DIMENSIONS AS I
MENTIONED, IT'S A WAY TO GET AT
MORE BUT SMALLER AND TALLER
BUILDINGS.
>> THE TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
FOUR DIMENSION WAS BASED OFF
OF THE BLOCKS DOWNTOWN CENTERED
AT MAIN AND HURON FOR EXAMPLE.
THAT BLOCK FROM MAINE SOUTHWARD
TO WASHINGTON THAT'S TWO
HUNDRED SIXTY FEET WE ROUNDED
DOWN TO TWO FIFTY AND THAT'S
PRETTY MUCH AGREED THAT THAT'S
A VERY COMFORTABLE BLOCK.
SO WE THOUGHT ALL NEW
DEVELOPMENT SHOULD REPLICATE
DOWNTOWNS DIMENSIONS.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION HAS
RECOMMENDED THAT THAT DIMENSION
BE INCREASED TO THREE HUNDRED
FEET.
THIS WILL ALLOW FOR A LITTLE
BIT MORE FLEXIBILITY IN DESIGN
.
IT'LL ALLOW FOR A PARKING
STRUCTURE IF NEED BE TO BE FLAT
LEVELS AND NOT ALL RAMPED
LEVELS.
THOSE AMENDMENTS WERE
RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL BUT
HAVE NOT YET MOVED FOR CITY
COUNCIL TO STOP THERE.
LET ME KNOW IF YOU WANT MORE
BACKGROUND THOUGH.
>> THANK YOU.
THAT WAS VERY HELPFUL AND HE
OTHER QUESTIONS
I THINK I STILL
HAVE AN ECHO
OF MAGIC GOOD.
>> THANK YOU ALEXIS.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR ALEXIS?
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
>> ALL RIGHT.
MR. COVID , YOU'RE UP.
>> IDENTIFY YOURSELF SIGN IN
AND YEAH ABSOLUTELY.
GOOD EVENING.
MEMBERS OF THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS MY NAME'S COVID.
I'M WITH MIDWESTERN CONSULTING
AND I'M HERE TONIGHT WITH ANDY
ANDRAY REPRESENTING THE OWNER
DEVELOPER TEAM AND LIKELY
ONLINE.
WE ALSO HAVE BEEN REDOUBLES
BOSS FROM L.A. ONE OF THE
PROJECT ARCHITECTS AND DAN
BROGAN FROM CRAWFORD, HOYING
ALSO REPRESENTING THE OWNER
DEVELOPER.
AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR
REVIEWING AND CONSIDERING THE
VARIANCE HERE TONIGHT AND THANK
YOU, JOHN, FOR YOUR GREAT
PRESENTATION OF THE PROJECT IN
OUR SITE.
THERE'S JUST A COUPLE OF THINGS
THAT I WILL INCLUDE TO MENTION
HERE WITH REGARD TO OUR
PROJECT.
OUR PROJECT IS ABOUT TWENTY
THREE ACRES IN SIZE AND THAT'S
GOING TO BE IMPORTANT BECAUSE I
THINK THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT THINGS THAT LEADS TO
DECISION MAKING AND HOW OUR
LAYOUT FITS WITHIN OUR SITE.
IT'S CURRENTLY HOME TO THE
ICONIC SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN
BUILDING AT THE NORTHEAST
CORNER OF SOUTH ST. AND
EISENHOWER THAT SITE IS IN THE
DC ONE ZONING DISTRICT.
IT HAS EXTENSIVE FRONTAGE ON
SOUTH STATE EISENHOWER AND
BOARDWALK SOUTH STATE AND
EISENHOWER BOTH TRANSIT CORE
TRANSIT DESIGNATED ROADWAYS.
SO BOARDWALK IS OUT AND THEN
WHAT WE ARE AS JOHN EXPLAINED,
REQUESTING FOR VARIANCES
CONCERNING THREE OF OUR
PROPOSED BUILDING SO A LITTLE
BIT FURTHER ON THE HARBOR S
PROJECT AND THE PLAN THAT'S
BEEN SUBMITTED FOR REVIEW FOR
SITE PLAN REVIEW IT IS AN
INFILL AND REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT BASICALLY THE SURFACE
PARKING AREAS THAT EXIST
ADJACENT TO THE OFFICE
BUILDINGS.
AGAIN WE'RE ADDING OVER A
THOUSAND RESIDENTIAL UNITS
INCLUDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING,
RETAIL SPACE, STRUCTURED
PARKING WE ARE HAVING OR ARE
CONVERTING THAT SURFACE PARKING
STRUCTURE PARKING TO SUPPORT
BOTH THE EXISTING OFFICE USED
IN THE PROPOSED USES.
WE WEREN'T CERTAIN I KNOW JOHN
SHARED THE SITE SLIDIN IT IS IN
YOUR PACKET.
WE WEREN'T CERTAIN THAT WHEN
CRAFTING THE ONE ZONING
CODE THAT IT HAD CONTEMPLATED A
TWENTY THREE ACRE PROJECT WITH
TWO EXISTING BUILDINGS WITH
PROXIMITY TO PROPERTY LINES AND
RIGHT AWAY THERE ARE PUBLIC
UTILITY EASEMENTS THAT
CRISSCROSS THROUGH THE SITE AND
FOLLOW ACCESS CORRIDORS AND
THEN ALSO A SITE THAT WOULD
HAVE SUCH EXTENSIVE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR FRONTAGE AND SOUTH
STATE EAST EISENHOWER
AS YOU
MIGHT IMAGINE THEN WITH ALL
THOSE THINGS HAPPENING THAT
CREATED CONFLICTS OR HARDSHIP
IN OUR LAYOUT OF THE SITE IN
MEETING THE CODE REQUIREMENTS
WHEN THEY'RE AS SPECIFIC AS
THEY WERE AND CURRENTLY IN
CODE .
SO WHAT WE'RE ASKING FOR HERE'S
ANOTHER WAY TO LOOK AT IT IS
WE'RE ASKING FOR FORBEARANCES
RELATING TO THREE BUILDINGS
FROM TWO CODE ELEMENTS.
>> SO WE'RE ASKING FOR A
VARIANCE TO THE FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENTS AS JOHN INDICATED
FOR BUILDING A ONE AND ONE.
SO OUR NORTH-EASTERN MOST
BUILDING AND OUR SOUTHWESTERN
MOST BUILDING AND THEN WE'RE
ASKING FOR A VARIANCE TO THE
BUILDING LENGTH FOR A ONE AND C
TWO.
SO AGAIN THE SAME BUILDING AT
THE S WEST CORNER AND THEN THE
CENTRAL BUILDING TO THE FRONT
OF YOUR BOARDWALK ARE HARDSHIP
AS IT RELATES TO THE UNIQUE
EXISTING CONDITION OF THE SITE.
ARE THE EXISTING BUILDING
LOCATIONS THE PUBLIC UTILITIES,
INFRASTRUCTURE AND EASEMENTS
THE EXISTING ACCESS POINTS, THE
BUILDING LENGTH BEING LIMITED
TO TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET.
SO WHEN WE START LOOKING AT
WHERE THE EXISTING ACCESS
POINTS ARE THE EASEMENTS IT
REALLY SET WHERE THE CENTRAL
ROAD WHAT WE CALL OUR MAIN
STREET IN A CERTAIN LOCATION
BASED ON THAT AND BASED ON THE
PROXIMITY TO THE BUILDINGS AND
THEN THAT SET THE BLOCK LINKS
AS WE WENT THROUGH THE SITE AND
DEVELOPED THE LAYOUT IN THIS
LIMITED TIME I'M HAPPY TO GET
INTO THE DETAILS BUT I'M NOT
GOING TO GET INTO EACH OF THE
DETAILS OF EACH OF THOSE
SPECIFIC BUILDINGS.
BUT I WILL SAY AS JOHN
MENTIONED THE LAST TIME WE MET
WE TABLED OR POSTPONED SINCE
THEN WE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
PURSUE A PARALLEL PATH.
SO WE'RE PURSUING THE VARIOUS
REQUESTS AND WE WERE PURSUING A
PAIR OF PARALLEL PLAN WHERE WE
HAD REQUESTED THE ZONING
MODIFICATIONS AND HAD THOSE
RUNNING AND IN PARALLEL WHY
WE'RE PURSUING THOSE TWO
OPTIONS IS WE HAVE A SITE PLAN
CURRENTLY WITH A LAYOUT THAT'S
BEEN SUBMITTED THAT CURRENTLY
DOESN'T MEET CODE .
SO WE EITHER NEED VARIANCES OR
WE NEED THE CODE REVISED.
SO SINCE OUR LAST MEETING
PLANNING COMMISSION THROUGH
SOME WHILE CRAFTED ZONING
LANGUAGE THAT STAFF PUT
TOGETHER HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
REVIEW SOME CHANGES, THOSE
CHANGES WERE UNANIMOUSLY
APPROVED BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
MANY OF THOSE I'LL SAY MANY,
MANY OF THE CHANGES DO HAVE
APPLICATION TO OUR PROJECT AND
THEY WOULD REMOVE, IF YOU WILL,
THE NEED FOR THESE VARIANCE
REQUESTS.
HOWEVER, ONE OF THE ITEMS WITH
THAT IS THOSE REQUESTS FROM
PLANNING COMMISSION WON'T GET
TO CITY COUNCIL UNTIL MAYBE
SEPTEMBER OCTOBER , NOVEMBER.
SO REALLY THAT CREATES A LOT
OF TIME THAT WE HAVE MANY
FACTORS INCLUDING THE TIMELINE
THAT'S INDICATED TO US THAT
IT'S IN OUR BEST INTEREST TO
PURSUE THESE VARIANCES.
SO THEN WE'LL HAVE A COMPLIANT
SITE PLAN THAT CAN BE ACTED ON
AND REVIEWED AND SO ON.
SO IT'S BASED ON THE UNIQUE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE SITE THAT
CREATED THE NEED FOR THE
VARIANCE AND THEN TO CARRY THAT
FURTHER THE FACT THAT WE HAVE A
TIMELINE THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
MEET WITH THE PROJECT CONTINUES
OUR INTEREST IN THE VARIANCE
BECAUSE THAT HELPS US HAVE A
CONFORMING SITE PLAN THEN FOR
STAFF TO REVIEW ANY QUESTIONS A
DE I'VE GOT A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS.
I'M I BASICALLY I LIKE THIS
WHOLE CONCEPTUAL I I REALLY
LIKE THIS.
I DO WANT TO NOTE THERE ARE A
LOT OF IT'S A LOT OF PAGE
SURFACE OUT HERE AND I SEE A
LOT OF YOU'RE OPENING A LOT
OF THAT UP TO PERMEABLE GROUND
WHERE GROUNDWATER CAN BE
CHARGED AND YOU'RE PUTTING IN A
NEW DETENTION POND.
ALL OF THOSE THINGS ARE REALLY
GOOD.
DO YOU HAVE A SENSE HOW MUCH
ADDED PERMEABLE GROUND ADDING
TO THE SITE IF ANY JUST
BALLPARK?
YEAH, I DON'T HAVE THAT NUMBER
CURRENTLY BUT LET'S TALK ABOUT
STORMWATER FOR A MINUTE.
BUT TWO EXISTING PONDS, THE ONE
ON THE NORTH SIDE OF THE ONE
OF THE SOUTH THE CORNER
BOARDWALK AND EISENHAUER WILL
REMAIN AND THEN WE ARE PLACING
A PORTION OF OUR STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT UNDERGROUND BECAUSE
THE SITE BECAUSE WE'RE
IMPACTING MORE THAN 50 PERCENT
OF THE SITE WITH A NEW
DEVELOPMENT WE HAVE TO FOLLOW
THE CURRENT STORMWATER STANDARD
SO THERE WASN'T A COMPARISON IN
OUR CALCULATIONS FOR STORMWATER
COMPARE IMPERVIOUS TO NEW
IMPERVIOUS SO I DON'T HAVE THAT
NUMBER BUT WE ARE ACCOUNTING
FOR THE STORMWATER THAT THAT WE
WILL WE'RE COUNTING FOR THE
STORMWATER FROM THE EXISTING
SITE AND THEN WE'RE ACCOUNTING
FOR THE STORM WATER FROM THE
NEW I CAN'T CALL IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE OF SOME OF IT'S NEW BUT
FOR THE WHOLE SITE.
SO WE'RE BRINGING THAT INTO
CONFORMANCE SO THERE'S A LOT
MORE VOLUME OF WATER THAT WE'RE
TREATING AND THEN THERE'S ALSO
WE'RE TREATING THE VOLUME THAT
WE'RE TREATING THE QUALITY BY
HELPING TO REMOVE EROSION
PARTICULATES THAT KIND.
SO MY MY SENSE LOOKING AT THIS
SCHEMATIC IS IS IT WRONG THAT
YOU'RE ADDING MORE OR MORE
PERMEABLE OPEN GROUND?
>> IT LOOKS LIKE MAYBE NOT.
I WOULD I WOULD THINK IT'S VERY
CLOSE.
>> AND THEN THE OTHER QUESTION
AGAIN, I'M I'M NOT RAISING
THESE QUESTIONS IN ANY WAY
OF TRYING TO PRESENT OBSTACLES
OR ANYTHING BECAUSE
CONCEPTUALLY THIS IS JUST A
BEAUTIFUL CONCEPT FOR THIS PART
OF THE CITY.
THE WAS THERE ANY THOUGHT TO
GOING WITH THE PUDI WITH THIS
WHICH WOULD THE SITE PLAN WOULD
BECOME THE ZONING SO YOU KIND
OF REMOVED FROM I KNOW THE CITY
HAS PUDI ZONING PROCESS AND YOU
COULD JUST CREATE A SITE PLAN A
ZONE THE PD UNIT WAS THERE ANY
THOUGHT TO THAT EARLY IN THE
PROCESS THERE MAY HAVE BEEN
THOUGHTS OF THAT BECAUSE THIS
PROJECT HAS BEEN ONE THAT THE
OWNERSHIP TEAM HAS BEEN
CONSIDERING FOR SOME TIME AND
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHAT TO DO
WITH THE MASSIVE SURFACE
PARKING LOTS AND HOW TO
INTERJECT SOME ENERGY AND
VIBRANCY TO THE SITE BEYOND
JUST OFFICE BUILDINGS.
SO IF THEY CONSIDERED THAT
PREVIOUSLY THAT WAS BECAUSE IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN AN OPTION.
BUT WITH THE ONE ZONING CHANGE
IT'S IT'S BROUGHT TO LIGHT AND
BROUGHT FORWARD THIS
OPPORTUNITY.
THANK YOU.
AND CHRISTINA.
YEAH, I THINK IN YOUR
PRESENTATION YOU AND IT'S IN
THE WRITTEN THE RESPONSE
REGARDING THE EXISTING PUBLIC
UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE THE
DRAWINGS ARE SO SMALL.
CAN YOU TALK TO WHERE THOSE ARE
LOCATED AND IN FACT HOW THAT
IMPACTED THE DESIGN IF JOHN CAN
TURN ON MY SCREEN HERE.
>> SO THAT WAS ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I WAS LOOKING TO
MAYBE GET INTO A LITTLE BIT
MORE DETAIL.
BUT WHEN THE SCREEN COMES ON
HERE YOU'RE GOING TO SEE THAT
CENTRAL DRIVE, THAT MAIN STREET
.
SO SO YOU HAVE THE SEVEN SEVEN
SEVEN BUILDING OF THE SEVEN
EIGHT NINE BUILDING.
THEY HAVE AN ENTRY ROAD BETWEEN
THEM.
THERE'S PUBLIC UTILITIES AND
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT EXISTS
THERE.
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT EAST,
WEST, NORTH, SOUTH THEN THAT
CONNECTS THE EAST WEST THAT
EAST WEST HAS PUBLIC UTILITIES
ACTUALLY BOTH OF THOSE HAVE NOT
ONLY PUBLIC UTILITIES BUT
FRANCHISE UTILITIES.
AND THEN WHEN YOU LOOK FURTHER
NORTH BEYOND THE THE PARKING
FIELD THERE IN THAT NORTHERN
ACCESS DRIVE, THERE'S ALSO
EXISTING UTILITIES AND
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT RESIDE
THERE AND THEN OBVIOUSLY ALL
AROUND THE SITE IN THE PUBLIC
ROADWAYS AS WELL, THEN YOU'LL
SEE TWO AREAS THAT ARE SHADED
WITH KIND OF A BLUE CHECKERED
PATTERN.
THOSE ARE STORMWATER EASEMENTS
OR OTHER EASEMENTS OF DRAINAGE
THAT ALSO RESIDE AT THE SITE SO
THAT TI IF YOU WILL.
>> YEAH.
AND THEN THE NORTHERN ACCESS
POINT CREATED KIND OF THE BLOCK
CADENCE AS THEY MOVE NORTH
THROUGH THE SITE.
>> THEN WE ADDED A BECAUSE THE
CUTS ARE LIMITED AND WE DON'T
WANT TO HAVE A BUNCH OF  COVID
SO LONG EISENHAUER PARKWAY THE
PROPOSED PLAN HAS A RIGHT IN
ONLY KIND OF TOWARDS THE CORNER
OF SOUTH STATE ALONG BUILDING A
ONE WHICH IS ONE OF THE
BUILDINGS WE'RE ASKING FOR THE
VARIANCE FOR OK, THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER QUESTIONS I HAVE
A FEW QUESTIONS THERE SO I'M
LOOKING FOR THIS BUT MY SENSE
IS AND YOU'VE NOT DONE ANYTHING
TO CONTRADICT THAT I THINK IS
THAT RETROFITTING ISN'T REALLY
THE RIGHT WORD HERE BUT AT SOME
POINT YOU SAID YOU WANTED TO
UTILIZE THE EXISTING DRIVES
OBVIOUSLY NOT JUST THE TWO BIG
BUILDINGS BUT KEEP UTILITIES
AND STORMWATER AND THE CURB
CUTS THE SAME IN THEORY YOU CAN
MOVE ANYTHING AROUND BUT IF YOU
WANT TO MINIMIZE COST AND PUT
THESE THINGS IN MOST
EXPEDITIOUSLY, YOU DON'T WANT
TO HAVE TO MESS WITH ALL THE
UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
IS THAT SORT OF A FAIR
STATEMENT?
THE PROJECT WAS PREDICATED TO
SEE WE CAN BUILD SOMETHING
WITHOUT MESSING TOO MUCH WITH
UNDERGROUND STUFF LET'S SAY
RATHER INELEGANTLY IS THAT THE
SENSE IS THAT HOW THIS PROJECT
WAS APPROACHED?
YES, THAT WAS PART OF IT.
THERE WERE ACTUALLY QUITE A
LIST OF THINGS THAT LED TO HOW
WE WERE LAYING THE SITE IN
PARTICULAR THAT BEING SOME
OF IT.
WE ALSO WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
BUILDING
A ONE AND D ONE, WE
HAD SOME THOUGHTS.
SO BUILDING D ONE BOARDWALK SO
BUILDING THESE ONES AT THE
NORTHEAST CORNER SORT OF SO
ACROSS THE SITE FROM NORTH TO
SOUTH WE HAVE OVER THIRTY FEET
OF OIL ACTUALLY AND AS WE GO
ACROSS OUR NORTHERN ACCESS ROAD
FROM BOARDWALK TO STATE STREET
JUST ACROSS BUILDING D ONE WE
HAVE 10 TO 14 FEET OF GREAT
CHANGE.
SO TO ENTER THAT BUILDING WE
NEED TO HAVE SOME ENTRANCES ON
BOARDWALK WE HAVE TO HAVE
ENTRANCES ON OUR ACCESS DRIVE
AND THEN WE'RE CREATING THIS
PUBLIC PLAZA OR A COURTYARD
THAT COMES UP AND SO YOU'LL BE
ABLE TO ENTER AT BOARDWALK DOWN
HERE AND AS YOU WALK THROUGH
THAT COURTYARD YOU'D BE ABLE TO
ENTER AT A DIFFERENT ELEVATION
BECAUSE WE'RE CHANGING THAT
GRADE.
>> SO THAT DICTATED IN THE ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTEEN RATHER
THAN REQUIRED SQUARE RIGHT,
RIGHT.
>> YEAH.
AND THEN A ONE BECAUSE OF WHERE
WE ARE WITH OUR EAST WEST ROAD
AND WHERE THE EXISTING BUILDING
IS WE'RE TRYING TO BREAK THAT
LAND AREA UP INTO A COUPLE
OF BLOCKS AND AS FAR AS THE
NORTH-SOUTH DIMENSION GOES, WE
WERE LOOKING AT CREATING A ONE
OF THE THINGS WE HEARD AT THE
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION MEETINGS
WAS CROSSING EISENHAUER ALONG
STATE STREET WAS DIFFICULT AND
WE WANTED TO CREATE SOMETHING
COMFORTING AND KIND OF A
PEDESTRIAN PLAZA AREA THERE AT
THE CORNER.
AND IF YOU THINK ABOUT THAT
INTERSECTION, EACH OF THE
CORNERS IS KIND OF SET BACK.
WE HAVE KIND OF A POND AND A
FOUNTAIN, A BRICK WALL AND THEN
THE BUILDING TO THE SOUTH HAS
OPEN SPACE AND THEN THE CORNER
BY THE MALL IS ALSO SET BACK.
>> SO WHEN REZONING HAPPENS AND
WE HAVE EVERYTHING THAT PUTS
DIFFERENT MASSES, IT CAN FEEL
ON BALANCE.
SO IF WE'RE PUTTING ALL THE
BUILDINGS UP TO THAT CORNER AND
HUGGING THE CORNER LIKE THE
CODE WANTS US, THAT'S GOING TO
LOOK ODD FOR A WHILE UNTIL
OTHER PARCELS REDEVELOP.
SO WE WERE THOUGHTFUL OF THE
DESIGNERS WERE THOUGHTFUL TO
PUSH THAT BUILDING BACK AND
CREATE THAT PUBLIC SPACE AND
THEN WE DON'T EFFICIENTLY OR
EFFECTIVELY HAVE ROOM TO BREAK
THAT UP INTO BLOCKS.
WE DON'T HAVE CURB CUTS
AVAILABLE.
SO YOU END UP WITH AN AREA THAT
REQUIRES A LITTLE BIT LONGER
BUILDING ACCORDING CITY STAFF
PERSON THE LEXUS AND THE YOU
HAD TO HAVE A BUILDING LESS
THAN TWO FIFTY BUT NOW THE CITY
IS SAYING YOU COULD HAVE ONE
MAYBE LESS THAN THREE HUNDRED
AND YOU'RE ASKING FOR TWO
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY SIX FEET.
SO IT SOUNDS LIKE THAT'S
VARIANCES OK WITH THE CITY OR
WILL BE IS THE CITY ISN'T BEING
VERY HARD ABOUT THE TWO HUNDRED
AND FIFTY FEET SO I DO HAVE
WHAT IS SO THE FIRST TWO
VARIANCES CONCERNED BUILDING A1
AND I DON'T REALLY HAVE A
PROBLEM WITH THOSE.
I DO HAVE A QUESTION WITH A
BUILDING C TO THE PARKING
STRUCTURE AND THAT HAD TO DO
WITH THE THE MAXIMUM WIDTH IF
YOU COULD EXPLAIN WHY YOU WENT
WITH WHAT THAT IS AS OPPOSED TO
A SMALLER WITH THREE WHY THE
WHAT YOU WENT WITH WAS
NECESSARY.
>> YEP.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT HELPS
WITH THE WIDTH OF THAT BUILDING
C TWO SO THAT IS BUILT SO THAT
BUILDING IS A PARKING
STRUCTURE, THAT PARKING
STRUCTURE IS GOING TO HAVE
SPACE ALONG BROAD BOARDWALK
THAT IS RETAIL FLEX SPACE KIND
OF STUFF THAT YOU IT ACTIVATES
OR ENERGIZES THE FRONT EDGE
OF OUR BOARDWALK IF WE MAKE
THAT PARKING STRUCTURE SMALLER
IT BECOMES INEFFICIENT TO HAVE
SOME OF THOSE SPACES AND HAVE
SOME OF THE ANCILLARY THINGS
THAT COME ALONG WITH THOSE
SPACES LIKE SOLID WASTE
COLLECTION AND STORAGE ACCESS.
SO BY ALONG MANDATING IT WE
FELT LIKE WE WERE MEETING THE
70 PERCENT REQUIREMENT.
WE WERE ALSO THEN HAVING A
BUILDING FRONT THAT WAS TOO
LARGE AND THEN WE ALSO THE TEAM
USES THE TERM FUTURE PROOFING
THE PARKING STRUCTURE WITH A
PARKING STRUCTURE THAT LENGTH
THE RAMP CAN BE FLAT LESS LESS
STEEP AND IT'S EASIER FOR
CONVERSION FROM PARKING
STRUCTURE TO OTHER USES AS MY
UNDERSTANDING.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE NO MORE QUESTIONS.
ANYBODY ELSE HERE?
IS THERE ANYBODY FROM THE
AUDIENCE YOU WISH TO SAY
SOMETHING?
YOU'RE THE ONLY PERSON THE
AUDIENCE EVER THANK YOU FOR
THAT IS ARE THERE ANY COLORS?
THERE ARE NO COLORS OK AND I
DON'T THINK WE RECEIVED ANY
LETTERS OR EMAILS FROM ANYONE
ABOUT THIS.
CORRECT.
THERE WAS NO NO CORRESPONDENCE
.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL WE ARE IS CANDICE'S IN
DISCUSSION AS SHE PUTS IT?
WELL, WE'RE IN DISCUSSION, YES.
JULIE.
>> SO I FEEL LIKE AT SOME POINT
I'M GOING TO BE VERY FAMILIAR
WITH THIS PROJECT BECAUSE THIS
IS I THINK THE THIRD THIRD AND
A HALF FOURTH PRESENTATION
OF THIS.
AND AS I MENTIONED, THE
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVED
UNANIMOUSLY THESE CHANGES THE
PETITIONER HAS BEEN VERY GOOD
AT WORKING WITH THE CITY.
THIS ONE IS A NEW ZONING
CODE AND SO THERE ARE THINGS
THAT SOUND GOOD IN THEORY BUT
THEN WHEN GIVEN AN ACTUAL
PARCEL AND WHAT WE WANT TO DO
WITH IT, YOU KNOW, THINGS
CHANGE A LITTLE AND SO PLANNING
COMMISSION DID APPROVE NOT
THESE PARTICULAR CHANGES BUT
CHANGES THAT WOULD HAVE MADE
THIS NOT REQUIRED.
AND SO I APPROVED THAT LAST
WEEK.
>> SO I ALSO APPROVE IT THIS
WEEK BECAUSE I THINK THAT THIS
IS ALL IT ALL MAKES SENSE AND
IT IT'S IT'S A GOOD USE OF LIKE
IT'S A NEW ZONING CODE AND
THERE ARE SOME TWEAKS BUT NONE
OF THESE ARE SORT OF NEFARIOUS
SAYS IT'S JUST LIKE OH THIS
THIS IS SLIGHTLY CHANGED.
SO THAT THEY MAKE A LOT
OF SENSE AND AND I'M HAPPY TO
VOTE FOR IT AGAIN.
>> I JUST HAD A QUESTION FOR
JULIE.
WERE THERE PUBLIC WORKSHOPS
THEN AROUND THIS NEW ZONING
DISTRICT?
JUST THE DEVELOPMENT OF IT IN
GENERAL OR WAS IT PROJECT
SPECIFIC?
I THOUGHT I KNOW THE WHOLE
ZONING AND NOT PROJECT
SPECIFIC.
>> OK, OK.
>> THE WHOLE DISTRICT THE WHOLE
DISTRICT WOULD BE SEVERAL TYPES
OF AMENDMENTS TO ADDRESS THESE
DEVELOPMENT FACTORS THAT ARE
GOING TO BE INCORPORATED IN THE
WHOLE DISTRICT.
>> BUT THIS IS THE FIRST
PROJECT OR THE FIRST YEAH.
YES OK WELL I WOULD ALSO LIKE
TO SAY I'M IN FAVOR OF THIS
THESE THINGS ARE VERY DIFFICULT
.
I THINK IT'S A SMART THING TO
DO TO TRY TO MINIMIZE WORKING
WITH UNDERGROUND UTILITIES,
CURB CUTS, ALL THESE OTHER
CONSTRAINTS IN THE SENSE I HAVE
FROM ALEXIS AND JULIE YOUR
COMMENTS IS THAT THESE THINGS
ARE EASY TO IMAGINE HOW BIG A
BUILDING SHOULD BE AND HOW LONG
AND ALL THAT.
BUT WHEN YOU'RE PUTTING NUMBERS
IT GETS A LITTLE DIFFICULT,
PARTICULARLY WHEN YOU'RE TRYING
TO WHEN YOU'RE WORKING WITH THE
SPACE THAT'S ALREADY PARTIALLY
IMPACTED AND YOU DON'T WANT TO
MOVE BIG BUILDINGS AROUND.
IT'S NOT LIKE THIS IS RURAL
LAND THAT'S GOING TO BE TWENTY
THREE ACRES OF WHERE YOU CAN
PLAN WHOEVER YOU WANT IN WHICH
CASE IT WOULD BE SURPRISING TO
ASK FOR A VARIANCE.
BUT HERE THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF CONSTRAINTS ON A SITE AND
IT'S NICE TO SEE THIS DEVELOPED
AND I'LL BE VOTING IN FAVOR
OF THIS.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
I GUESS WE'RE READY FOR MOTION.
>> I'M GOING TO PROPOSE I
UNLESS THERE'S SOME OBJECTION
TO THIS ALL FOUR VARIANCES IN
ONE MOTION AND IF ANY OF THE MY
FELLOW MEMBERS ON THE ZEBA
WOULD PREFER TO PULL ONE
OF THOSE OUT FOR SOME REASON,
THEN I WOULD BE OPEN TO PULLING
ONE OUT.
BUT I THINK IN THE INTERESTS
OF DISPOSING OF THIS IN ONE
VOTE IF POSSIBLE, I'D LIKE TO
PROPOSE FOR VARIANCES IN ONE
MOTION AS I AGREE WITH THAT.
ANYBODY DISAGREE WITH THAT?
NO.
OK, GOOD OK ZEBA TWENTY FOUR
DASH ZERO ZERO TWO THREE TWENTY
EIGHT FORTY FIVE SOUTH STATE
STREET BASED ARE IN ACCORDANCE
WITH ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS THE FOLLOWING
VARIANCES FERENCE NO ONE TO
ALLOW FOR BUILDING A1 TO EXCEED
THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE OF TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY FEET BY TWENTY
SIX FEET VARIANCE NUMBER TWO
ALSO ASSOCIATED WITH BUILDING
ONE WOULD ALLOW THE BUILDING TO
HAVE A FRONTAGE OF 52 PERCENT
OF THE BLOCK WHICH DOES NOT
MEET THE REQUIRED SEVENTY
PERCENT.
THE PROPOSED BUILDING IS
APPROXIMATELY TWENTY ONE FEET
LESS THAN THE REQUIRED LENGTH
TO MEET THE 70 PERCENT BLOCK
LENGTH REQUIREMENT ALONG EAST
EISENHAUER VARIANCE NUMBER
THREE TO ALLOW BUILDING C TO TO
EXCEED THE MAXIMUM BUILDING
LENGTH OF TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
FEET BY FORTY FOUR FEET.
THE PROPOSED BUILDING IS TO BE
CONSTRUCTED AT A LENGTH OF TWO
HUNDRED NINETY FOUR FEET ALONG
BOARDWALK DRIVE VARIANCE NUMBER
FOR B TO ALLOW BUILDING D ONE
TO HAVE A BUILDING FRONTAGE
OF FORTY NINE PERCENT OR TWENTY
ONE PERCENT LESS THAN THE
REQUIRED SEVENTY PERCENT.
THE OVERALL BUILDING LENGTH
PROPOSED IS ONE HUNDRED
SEVENTEEN FEET IN LENGTH OR
FIFTY FEET LESS THAN WHAT WOULD
BE REQUIRED TO MEET THAT
SEVENTY PERCENT DIMENSIONAL
LONG BOARDWALK DRIVE SUPPORTED
AND READY
FOR IT SO DARMA YES
KRISTINA.
YES I ALSO VOTE YES MIKE YES
DAVE DEVADAS AND JULIE YES.
ALL RIGHT ONE TWO THREE YOU
PASSED SIX TO ZERO THANK YOU
ALL RIGHT
.
RIGHT NOW WE'RE INTO THE NEXT
ITEM WHICH IS THE ALTERATION TO
A NON CONFORM EXTRA STRUCTURE
PROPOSED TEXT AMENDMENT TO THE
ZONING HYBRID
.
SO LAST MONTH WE HAD A NEW
BUSINESS AND THAT WAS THE
ADDRESSING THE ZONING BOARD
APPEALS MOTION TO CHANGE
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TWO ALTERATION TO
NONPERFORMANCE STRUCTURE AND WE
HAD A DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
CHANGES AND WE RECEIVED SOME
FEEDBACK AND AT THAT TIME I HAD
ASKED FOR A MOTION TO MOVE THE
TEXT AMENDMENT TO THE NEXT
PHASE TRIBUTE TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
AT THAT POINT THEY ACTUALLY
FORMULATE AND CREATE A
FINALIZED THE THE LANGUAGE THE
TEXT AMENDMENT AND THEN
ULTIMATELY GOES TO CITY COUNCIL
.
>> UM, WE YOU GUYS WANTED TO
HAVE SOME DISCUSSION ON THAT.
>> WE'VE HAD UH TWO UH EMAILS
IN RESPONSE TO THAT UM AND I
BELIEVE EVERYONE SAW THOSE THAT
ARE IN THEIR PACKET IN YOUR
POCKET AND YOU SO WITH THAT
BEING SAID, I'M GOING TO KIND
OF TURN IT OVER TO BRETT
LEONARD WHO'S THE PLANNING
MANAGER AND HE CAN GIVE SOME
MORE BACKGROUND ON THIS PROCESS
AND HELP ME ALONG IN THIS
JOURNEY.
>> I'M I'M SEARCHING FOR THAT
ALL WE CAN'T HERE WE HAVE TO
PRESS THAT IN CHINA AND A
QUESTION TO I DON'T WANT IT BUT
LET'S JUST NOT RIGHT.
>> OK, I'M JUST ONE OF MY
COMMENTS.
I WASN'T HERE LAST TIME SO I
SENT AMENDMENT OK AMENDED
COMMENT.
>> YES, BUT BUT I THINK IF THEY
WERE THEY IN YOUR PACKET I
THOUGHT THEY WERE IN THE
PACKAGE.
>> I DON'T KNOW IT'S NOT
VERSION A, B OR C I DON'T THINK
I I FOUND THAT THEY'RE NOT I
HAVE A I HAVE A HAND OUT I CAN
GIVE EVERYBODY OK YEAH I
HAVEN'T LOCATED THAT GO AHEAD
BUT I CAN DO I CAN HAND THESE
OUT.
WELL IF YOU'RE TALKING CAN YOU
HEAR US I CAN YOU HEAR ME OK
WELL YOU NEED TO HIT THAT MAGIC
BUT LET ME SEE HERE EVEN YOU
FIND A MAGIC TIME.
>> WELL HE DID SOMETHING OVER
THERE WHICH WORK WITH ALEXIS
RIGHT.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YEAH.
>> OK, I FEEL IT SOUNDS A
LITTLE BIT LIKE I'M IN A
HAUNTED HOUSE BUT I'M OK IF YOU
ARE SO GOOD EVENING TO THE TO
THE BOARD.
JUST A REMINDER MY NAME IS
BRETT AND I'M THE PLANNING
MANAGER AND JOHN HAD ASKED ME
TO JUST CERTAINLY BE AVAILABLE
FOR ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU
HAVE.
I THINK ACTUALLY JOHN DID A
REALLY NICE JOB TALKING ABOUT
THE OVERALL PROCESS FOR TAX
AMENDMENTS.
SO MY UNDERSTANDING IS THE
FIRST THE FIRST GO ROUND THAT I
THINK YOU TALKED ABOUT THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
CONCEPTUALLY AND SINCE THAT MY
UNDERSTANDING IS YOU WANTED TO
SEE SOME PROPOSED LANGUAGE
WHICH I THINK JOHN HAS PUT
TOGETHER AND INCLUDED IN THE
PACKAGE THIS TIME THAT IS FINE.
YOU CAN LOOK AT THAT LANGUAGE
AS JOHN INDICATED.
I WOULD JUST WANT TO MAKE IT
CLEAR THAT IT'S POSSIBLE THAT
ANY LANGUAGE THAT YOU'RE SEEING
THIS EVENING COULD EVOLVE AS IT
AS IT WINDS ITS WAY THROUGH
THAT LAWMAKING PROCESS THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE
CITY COUNCIL ULTIMATELY.
SO IT'S FINE TO LOOK AT THAT
BUT ALSO I WOULD JUST ALSO MAKE
SURE THAT YOU FEEL FREE AS A
BOARD TO JUST KIND OF CONVEY
WHAT THE DESIRED OUTCOME YOU
WOULD LIKE TO SEE.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS AT THE CORE
ISSUE THAT THE CONVERSATION HAS
BEEN IS WHETHER OR NOT THERE
ARE CERTAIN OPPORTUNITIES FOR
ALTERATION TO NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES OF DIFFERENT TYPES
TO PERHAPS HAVE A LITTLE EASIER
PROCESS TO CONSIDER THAN
CURRENTLY THAT COULD BE
STRUCTURED THROUGH SOME
AUTOMATIC APPROVALS OR BY
APPROVALS BY STAFF RATHER THAN
TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
.
HOWEVER PART OF THAT AGAIN YOU
CAN SORT OF FOCUS ON THE
LANGUAGE AS PRESENTED OR YOU'RE
WELCOME TO JUST SORT OF LEAVE
JOHN AND I WITH THE SORT
OF OUTCOME YOU'D LIKE TO
RECOMMEND TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THAT IS IF YOU CAN DESCRIBE THE
CATEGORIES OF PROJECTS THAT
YOU'RE SEEING ON A REGULAR
BASIS THAT YOU ARE CROSSING THE
BACK OF YOUR MIND SAYING LIKE,
YOU KNOW, WE ALWAYS APPROVE OR
WHAT'S KIND OF THE BENEFIT
OF US DOING THIS PARTICULAR
PRODUCT PROJECT REVIEW.
WE CAN DEFINITELY WORK ON
CRAFTING LANGUAGE IF WHAT IS IN
FRONT OF YOU DOESN'T MEET THAT
NEED.
SO THAT'S WHAT I HAVE TO OFFER
AND I LIKE JOHN.
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT HAVE IF I
HAVE AN INTERNAL
ALWAYS OK.
IN ADDITION FOR ME IF OUTSIDE
OF THE BUILDING CAN YOU HEAR ME
IS THIS IF THE OUTSIDE OF THE
BUILDING CHANGES I'M ALSO
COMFORTABLE IF THOSE OUTSIDE
CHANGES MEET CURRENT ZONING
SETBACK REQUIREMENTS SO THAT'S
MY VIEW.
I THINK THERE'S PROBABLY
AGREEMENT ON THE FIRST POINT I
MADE WITH JUST INTERIOR WE
DON'T NEED TO SEE IT AND I'D
LIKE TO SEE IF PEOPLE ALSO
AGREE TO THE SECOND POINT IF
THEY'RE PROPOSING CHANGES THAT
DON'T VIOLATE CURRENT SETBACKS
BUT A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
WE WOULD BE OK WITH THAT AS
WELL.
SO THAT'S WHERE I COME FROM,
HOW IT'S WORDED.
>> I'M NOT THE CITY ATTORNEY.
I'M NOT THE PROFESSIONAL STAFF
HERE.
I'D LEAVE THAT TO YOUR SKILLS.
>> OH, SORRY.
I THINK THE THING THAT I SEE A
LOT THAT WE TEND TO APPROVE
OF SEEM SILLY IS BREATHTAKING.
YEAH.
AND THE NUMBER OF UNITS I THINK
ONE OF THE THINGS RIGHT NOW
THAT WE HAVE IS THAT WHEN YOU
ARE INCREASING THE NUMBER
OF UNITS IT TRIGGERS EVEN IF
IT'S INTERIOR.
SO I JUST WANTED TO GET A SENSE
OF IS THAT WHEN YOU'RE YOU KNOW
I KNOW YOU'RE YOU'RE ONE MEMBER
OF THE BOARD I'D BE APPRECIATE
THE FEEDBACK FROM THE BOARD.
IS YOUR INTEREST THAT THAT
INTERIOR ALTERATION BE VERY
WIDE RANGING?
THAT IS WHETHER IT IS
RESIDENTIAL, NONRESIDENTIAL,
WHETHER IT IS INCREASING THE
SIZE OF EXISTING UNITS OR
INCREASING THE TOTAL NUMBER
OF UNITS?
>> IS THAT ABSOLUTE IN YOUR
EYES FOR THOSE INTERIOR
RENOVATIONS?
I THINK WE JUST TALKING
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY, BRETT, IS
THAT CORRECT?
>> YOU KNOW, I'M SEEING HEADS
NOT THIS IS ONLY FOR
RESIDENTIAL THIS IS ONLY
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES THAT
WOULD NOT AFFECT COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES.
>> COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES WILL
STILL HAVE TO SEEK VARIANCES
FROM THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS AND CHECK.
>> YES, OK, SORRY DID I CUT YOU
OFF?
>> NO, NO NO AUDIO ISSUES.
UM THE OTHER ONE THAT I SEE
THAT IT SEEMS LIKE WE ALWAYS
HAVE AGREEMENT WHEN IT COMES
BEFORE US IS WHEN LIKE AN
ADDITION IS THE SECOND FLOOR
THAT DOESN'T EXPAND PAST THE
YOU KNOW EVEN IF THE SET BACK
IS KNOWN FOR ME THE BUILDING
BUT THEY'RE ADDING ON TOP OF IT
DOESN'T INCREASE THAT NORMALLY
OUT LIKE THE LIKE TODAY THE
FIRST ONE THEN.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
SO THAT WOULDN'T BE THAT WOULD
BE AN ALTERATION TO IN OUR
PERFORMANCE STRUCTURE BUT IT
WOULDN'T BE WHOLLY ON THE
INTERIOR.
IT'S STILL AN EXTERIOR CHANGE
BUT IT'S NOT EXPANDING THE
FOOTPRINT.
>> SO YOU THAT SHOULD BE
APPROVED OBVIOUSLY AS WELL.
>> YEAH THAT'S WHAT I THINK SO
AND THAT'S WHAT WOULD BE
COVERED IN THIS DRAFT
AMENDMENT.
>> YOU HAVE THAT BEFORE YOU YOU
I'VE HANDED THAT OUT TONIGHT
DENHA I'M NOT SAYING
THIS IS
JUST TO CLARIFY FOR EVERYBODY
THE ONE HAS NO NAME ON IT.
THAT'S FOR ME.
THAT'S AN EMAIL THAT I SENT ON
SEVEN 710.
SO THAT'S WHAT THAT'S ALL ABOUT
AND THAT WAS IN RESPONSE TO THE
VERSIONS A THE C NO IT'S A THAT
EVERYONE HAS IT.
IT'S RIGHT HERE.
RIGHT THIS ONE AND YOU ALL HAVE
IT I GAVE IT TO YOU TONIGHT.
WHERE IS RIGHT IT'S IT'S IT
SAYS DRAFT THE RED LINE TEXT IS
RIGHT HERE.
>> OH
OH WELL WE WERE NOT IT'S
NOT OUR JOB TO APPROVE FINAL
LANGUAGE THAT'S CORRECT.
>> CORRECT.
THIS IS A THIS IS A DRAFT THAT
WOULD COVER BASICALLY
EVERYTHING THAT YOU'VE
ADDRESSED RESIDENTIAL
ALTERATIONS ON INTERIORS AND SO
BASICALLY WHAT I WAS ASKING
LAST MONTH AND I'M ASKING AGAIN
TONIGHT IS AND THAT
CORRESPONDENCE THAT MEMO THAT
WAS IN FRONT OF YOU THERE'S THE
RESOLUTION OR THE MOTION TO GO
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
MOVE THIS FORWARD TO THE NEXT
PHASE.
>> NO.
>> AND THEN ONCE IT GOES TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THERE'S
GOING TO BE IT'S GOING TO GO TO
THE ORDINANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE
FIRST.
THAT'S THE FIRST STEP IN THE
PROCESS.
I THINK TO ME THE LANGUAGE
SEEMS A LOT MORE CLEAR.
>> SO I'M LOOKING AT WHAT'S IN
BLUE, CORRECT?
>> RIGHT.
YEP.
AN ITEM B AND IT SEEMS TO YEAH.
GET TO THE ESSENCE OF WHAT WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO COMMUNICATE.
>> I WAS CONCERNED BEFORE ABOUT
THERMAL BARRIER AND THAT WAS
GOING DOWN A RABBIT HOLE THAT
WAS NOT NOT NEEDED AT ALL.
SO I THINK THIS STREAMLINES IT
AND IT SEEMS VERY CLEAR TO ME
THAT THIS ACHIEVES WHAT WE'RE
HOPING IT SHOULD.
SO I'M GOOD WITH THIS AMENDMENT
AND IT'S FOR SINGLE FAMILY AND
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
>> DOES THAT NEED TO BE YES.
>> THAT'S ALL FOR ALL
RESIDENTIAL FOR ALL.
IT'LL COVER OUR ONE HOUR ONE
DAY EXCUSE ME ARE WHEN THEY ARE
WHEN WE ARE ONE C ARE WHEN THE
ARWANI ARE FOR DISTRICTS AS
WELL.
>> YEAH THANKS.
OK THAT'S GOOD.
>> YEAH SO YOU'D LIKE US TO
ESSENTIALLY IMPROVE GOING AHEAD
WITH THAT APPROVED SORRY DRAFT
A MOTION TO MOVE THIS REQUESTED
TEXT AMENDMENT TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WHICH IS ALSO WHICH
IS ANOTHER CALL FOR YOU AS A
BOARD HAS REQUESTED TO ME AND
SO THIS IS THE LANGUAGE THAT'S
BEING CRAFTED.
I'VE LISTENED TO WHAT YOU HAD
TO SAY AND NOW WE'RE READY TO
MOVE IT TO THE NEXT LEVEL.
>> SO IF I'M HEARING YOU
CORRECTLY AT THIS POINT YOUR
EIGHT O'CLOCK THAT SIMPLE VOICE
VOTE THAT WE AGREE THAT WE'D
LIKE THIS TO BE FURTHER TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR MORE
CONSIDERATION ESSENTIALLY.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, DAVE, SO WHEN I WAS LOOKING
AT TODD'S VERSION A, B AND C
,
I'VE MADE A CHANGE INSTEAD
OF BUILDING ENVELOPE BUILDING'S
FOOTPRINT AND TAKE OUT THAT
THERMAL BARRIER ON BUSINESS.
BUT I LIKE VERSION B THE
PROPOSED CHANGES WILL ALLOW
ALTERATIONS AND I TAKE OUT TO
THE INTERIOR SO IT'S GOING TO
BE ALLOW INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR
ALTERATIONS TO A NON CONFORMING
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE IF THE
ALTERATION DOES NOT EXPAND
OUTWARD THE BUILDING'S
FOOTPRINT BEYOND THE CURRENT
ZONING ORDINANCES SET BACK
REQUIREMENTS.
>> OK, SO THAT'S THE FEEDBACK
THAT WE WERE GIVEN BY ONE
OF THE MEMBERS.
BUT AND IT'S KIND OF PARALLELS
THIS LANGUAGE RIGHT HERE DAVE.
SO WE'RE NOT WE'RE NOT
APPROVING LANGUAGE.
YEAH, WELL YEAH IT SAYS IT SAYS
ESSENTIALLY THE SAME THING JUST
A LITTLE DIFFERENTLY BUT WE'RE
NOT APPROVING LANGUAGE TONIGHT.
I'M JUST GIVING YOU INFORMATION
TO FEEL COMFORTABLE TO PASS
THIS MOTION TO MOVE THIS TO THE
NEXT AND IN THIS CASE AND THEN
THE THAT WE DON'T MAKE A CALL
ON THIS.
NO, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS, THE ZONING, THE
PLANNING SOMETHING WE'RE NOT
ACTUALLY APPROVING LANGUAGE NO
ZONING PUTS OUT.
>> BUT IF YOU TALK TO
JIGGLYPUFF LINE YOU OBVIOUSLY
TAKE A LINE VERSION.
>> SEE, I THINK THAT SHOULD
COME TO US THAT WON'T I SO I
AGREE WITH DAVE BUT YOU KNOW
VIRGINICA, THE DRAFT WOULD BE
I'M NOT RIGHT TO BE APPROVED BY
STEP.
IT'S NOT FOR ME TO DEFINE THE
LANGUAGE FOR THIS IF ANYTHING
IS BEYOND FATHER INTO SETBACKS
THAN THE BUILDING'S CURRENT
ENVELOPE.
>> RIGHT.
SO IF YOU SO YOU WANT TO SEE IN
ADDITION IF THERE IS A IF
THERE'S A NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE THAT IS ENCROACHING
TO FEED INTO A SET BACK AND
THEY WANT TO DO AN ADDITION
THAT MEETS THAT TWO FOOT
EDITION, YOU WANT TO SEE THAT
BECAUSE IT'S BEYOND THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE EXISTING
BUILDING.
>> IF IT'S A NEW HABITABLE
SPACE YOU KNOW, IF IT'S BEYOND
THE FOOTPRINT OF THE BUILDING,
THE EXISTING BUILDING.
SO IF IT'S THEY CAN GO THAT'S
WHAT I THINK.
>> YES.
BUILD WITHIN THAT SET BACK AT
HIGHER LEVELS.
BUT IF THEY'RE INCREASING THE
SIZE OF THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
BUILDING RIGHT.
>> WHAT IF THEY'RE JUST DOING
THIS?
WHAT IF THEY'RE JUST DOING A
BUMP OUT AND SQUARING OFF A
BUILDING AND IT DOESN'T IT
DOESN'T INCREASE THE
NONCONFORMITY?
WELL, THE PROBLEM IS CAN IT CAN
I HELP OUT HERE?
>> YEAH, I THINK COULD WE TALK
ABOUT IT BEFORE ONE?
I THINK WE'RE AGREED IF IT'S
INTERIOR RESIDENTIAL WE DON'T
NEED TO SEE IT IF IT'S GOING TO
BUMP OUT THE BUILDING, IF IT
MEETS CURRENT ZONING
REQUIREMENTS SPECIFICALLY
SETBACKS AND SOME OTHER STUFF,
THEN WE DON'T NEED TO SEE IT
EITHER CONTRACT BECAUSE THAT
WOULD BE A PRO STAFF
ADMINISTRATIVELY.
RIGHT.
SO RIGHT.
THAT'S RIGHT.
RIGHT.
>> BUT IF THEY'RE WE'RE NOT
THAT'S RIGHT.
SAYING THEY'RE GOING TO IT WAS
>> BUT IF THEY'RE WE'RE NOT
YOUR BAD SCENARIO IF SOMEBODY
SAYING THEY'RE GOING TO IT WAS
IS BETTER PROVE A NONCONFORMING
YOUR BAD SCENARIO IF SOMEBODY
SETBACK BUT THEN THE PROPERTY
IS BETTER PROVE A NONCONFORMING
LINE WE DON'T WANT THEM TO PUSH
SETBACK BUT THEN THE PROPERTY
THE REST OF THE BUILDING OUT TO
LINE WE DON'T WANT THEM TO PUSH
THAT.
THE REST OF THE BUILDING OUT TO
THEY JUST IF THEY'RE GOING TO
THAT.
CHANGE THE OUTSIDE SHAPE OF THE
THEY JUST IF THEY'RE GOING TO
BUILDING, THEY WOULD HAVE TO
CHANGE THE OUTSIDE SHAPE OF THE
MEET CURRENT ZONING SETBACK
BUILDING, THEY WOULD HAVE TO
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE
MEET CURRENT ZONING SETBACK
ONLY.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE
>> YEAH, THEY COULD STILL COME
ONLY.
TO US AS A BOARD FOR A VARIANCE
>> YEAH, THEY COULD STILL COME
TO EXTEND BEYOND CORRECT.
TO US AS A BOARD FOR A VARIANCE
>> SO THOSE TWO THINGS IN DAY
TO EXTEND BEYOND CORRECT.
HERE YOU IF THEY DO SOMETHING
>> SO THOSE TWO THINGS IN DAY
TO THE OUTSIDE OF IT MEETS
HERE YOU IF THEY DO SOMETHING
CURRENT ZONING REQUIREMENTS
TO THE OUTSIDE OF IT MEETS
THAT'S FINE AND EVERYONE HAS
CURRENT ZONING REQUIREMENTS
THE ABILITY TO SEND ME AN EMAIL
THAT'S FINE AND EVERYONE HAS
OR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND
THE ABILITY TO SEND ME AN EMAIL
THAT WILL BE ATTACHED WITH A
OR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND
PACKET TO THE PLANNING
THAT WILL BE ATTACHED WITH A
COMMISSION FOR THE ORACY AND
PACKET TO THE PLANNING
FOR CONSIDERATION.
COMMISSION FOR THE ORACY AND
>> WE'VE DONE OUR JOB, MADE OUR
FOR CONSIDERATION.
VIEWS KNOWN.
>> WE'VE DONE OUR JOB, MADE OUR
WHAT THE FINAL LANGUAGE WOULD
VIEWS KNOWN.
BE IS WILL BE THE PROFESSIONAL
WHAT THE FINAL LANGUAGE WOULD
STAFF OF THE CITY TO DETERMINE
BE IS WILL BE THE PROFESSIONAL
NOT ME.
STAFF OF THE CITY TO DETERMINE
>> SO I THINK IT'LL BE FELT FOR
NOT ME.
COUNCIL.
>> SO I THINK IT'LL BE FELT FOR
>> UM, I APPRECIATE THIS
COUNCIL.
DISCUSSION.
>> UM, I APPRECIATE THIS
I AND I ASSUME THAT INFORMATION
DISCUSSION.
FROM THIS DISCUSSION WILL BE
I AND I ASSUME THAT INFORMATION
MADE TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FROM THIS DISCUSSION WILL BE
IN SOME WAY AND I APPRECIATED
MADE TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
THE MEMO THAT SAYS OVER THE
IN SOME WAY AND I APPRECIATED
PAST TEN YEARS 95 PERCENT
THE MEMO THAT SAYS OVER THE
OF THESE PETITIONS HAVE BEEN
PAST TEN YEARS 95 PERCENT
APPROVED BY THE ZIBA THAT
OF THESE PETITIONS HAVE BEEN
SUGGESTS TO ME MAYBE IT'S
APPROVED BY THE ZIBA THAT
USEFUL LOOKING AT THE FIVE
SUGGESTS TO ME MAYBE IT'S
PERCENT THAT WORK I DON'T KNOW
USEFUL LOOKING AT THE FIVE
IF THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME
PERCENT THAT WORK I DON'T KNOW
KIND OF FURTHER STAFF ANALYSIS
IF THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME
WHEN THIS GOES TO PLANNING
KIND OF FURTHER STAFF ANALYSIS
COMMISSION.
WHEN THIS GOES TO PLANNING
BUT THAT'S REALLY I THINK WHERE
COMMISSION.
THEY HAMMER OUT THESE DETAILS
BUT THAT'S REALLY I THINK WHERE
AND I'M COMFORTABLE WITH THAT.
THEY HAMMER OUT THESE DETAILS
I'M HAPPY FOR THIS CHANGE.
AND I'M COMFORTABLE WITH THAT.
I DON'T THINK I'VE SEEN US
I'M HAPPY FOR THIS CHANGE.
DECLINE A SINGLE ONE SINCE I
I DON'T THINK I'VE SEEN US
MET A CBA.
DECLINE A SINGLE ONE SINCE I
>> SO I THINK THIS IS POSITIVE
MET A CBA.
AND I APPRECIATE THE WORK.
>> SO I THINK THIS IS POSITIVE
SO I THINK WE'RE READY FOR A
AND I APPRECIATE THE WORK.
VOICE VOTE TO PUSH THIS TO THE
SO I THINK WE'RE READY FOR A
PLANNING COMMISSION.
VOICE VOTE TO PUSH THIS TO THE
YES.
PLANNING COMMISSION.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I I SAID
YES.
IS THERE ANYBODY AGAINST DO YOU
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I I SAID
HAVE WHAT YOU NEED?
IS THERE ANYBODY AGAINST DO YOU
>> YEAH, I DO.
HAVE WHAT YOU NEED?
I APPRECIATE GOOD.
>> YEAH, I DO.
>> THANK YOU SIR.
I APPRECIATE GOOD.
AND ANY NEW BUSINESS NO.
>> THANK YOU SIR.
UM REPORT REPORTS FROM COMING
AND ANY NEW BUSINESS NO.
OUT BECAUSE THAT WAS IT BECAUSE
UM REPORT REPORTS FROM COMING
WE HAVE YOUR ON AGAIN
SO LET'S
MOVE OUR LAST MEETING AS SOME
OF YOU MAY HAVE HEARD WE
CONSIDERED AN HOUR SORRY
ACCEPTING MONEY FROM THE STATE
TO REPLACE DTD SODIUM LIGHTS
WITH ELEVEN AND THIS JUST
INTERSECTED WITH THE DARK SKY
ORDINANCE IN AN INTERESTING WAY
THE DARK SKY ORDINANCE DOES NOT
APPLY TO PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
NOR IS DTP BEHOLDEN TO OUR
LOCAL LIGHTING ORDINANCE.
BUT LOTS OF INTERESTING
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THE
TEMPERATURE OF THE LIGHTS AND
WHETHER THEY CAN FORM THEIR
DARK SKY.
THEY WILL BE AND THEN THE REAL
POINT OF DISCUSSION WAS THE
BRIGHTNESS OF THE LIGHTS ON
LOCAL STREETS.
THE IDEA WITH DARK SKY HAS BEEN
THAT YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE LIGHT
THAT STRONGER THAN IT NEEDS TO
BE IN THE CONTEXT OF THE LIGHTS
WILL BE SHIELDS.
LONG STORY SHORT THE COUNCIL
POSTPONED THIS TO GIVE STAFF
HOPEFULLY MORE TIME TO WORK
WITH DTG TO GET TO DIFFERENT
KINDS OF LSD.
SO ANYWAY THAT THIS BODY WOULD
BE INTERESTING BECAUSE WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT THE DARK SKY
ORDINANCE A COUPLE OF TIMES.
>> I THINK THAT'S AS FAR AS
WHAT'S RELEVANT TO THIS GROUP.
GOOD.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT, ANNIE, I THINK WE'RE
READY FOR A MOTION TO ADJOURN
ALL IN FAVOR OF ADJOURNING SAY
A JUDGE.
>> DID YOU HAVE SOMETHING TO
SAY?
>> NO, NOTHING MORE AT THIS
TIME.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF ENDING
THE MEETING SAY I DON'T ANYBODY
OBJECTING NO.
>> OK, THANK YOU